---
title: 'Arian proof texts: Colossians 1:15 - What does "Firstborn" mean?'
tags: [Arianism, Jehovah's witnesses, Deity of Christ]
---

One of the favorite arguments by Arians such as Jehovah's witnesses to deny the deity of Christ is to say "Jesus was created" and point to Colossians 1:15. When you read it however it says nothing about Jesus being created. So what gives?

# The argument

The Arian will focus on the word "firstborn" and say: "Aha! See! it says that Jesus is firstborn! First. Born. If he is born that means that he had a beginning. and if he has a beginning that means he is created! QED!"

# The truth

## Not "created"

First if all, if for argument's sake Jesus had a beginning, that still doesn't mean that he was created. Created means that God made him from nothing as a different type of being. That's not the only way someone can begin. In fact most beings are **born** or **begotten** to their parents. This means they are the **same** type of being as their parents.

If you were to interpret "firstborn" as "having a beginning" then wouldn’t it be more logical to use the word "**born**" as in "first**born**"? It would be a slightly less dumb argument if they said "Jesus was **born** by God". But saying he was "created" is not even in the text, so it's a really ignorant[^ignorant] leap of logic.

## That's not what "firstborn" means

Secondly, a person reading tgis text out of context without any knowledge of biblical definitions of words (i.e. Arians) might be forgive for thinking that "firstborn" means "born first". However the reality is more complicated than that.

Saying that "firstborn" means "born first" is an etymological fallacy, to say that a word can only have its original meaning without any other meanings that it may have aquired during thousands of years of history. 

### Origins

Yes the word Firstborn originates from the ancient oractice that a couple's furst birn son was special and usually inherited a parger part of the inheritance. He was also expected to take over the role as patriarch of the fanily when the father died, as well as take care if his younger siblings and ither families. If the farher was the king of the family, the firstborn became the prince, the heir, the one with the right to rule.

As you can see, even before we begin, the word is loaded with ither meanings apart from "being born first.

### Subverting the order

A common thread in the Bible when ut comes to the firstborn is that God more often than not subverts the order. Humans think the most valuable son is the one born furst, but God does not look at outward appearance, so he has kept shifting this paradigm from the furst firstborn all the way to his own furstborn, Jesus. Examples:

- Cain was born first, but God gave his favor to Abel, making him firstborn. (Gen 4:4,5)
- Even though Cain murdered Abel, his younger brother Seth became the firstborn "after [Adam's] image", with the privilege of being forefather to Jesus. (Gen 5:3)
- Noah had three sons, Japheth being born first. (Gen 10:21) Even so, Shem was the firstborn, being blessed with inheriting the promised land. Japheth instead got to "dwell in Shem's tent". (Gen 9:27)
- Ham tried to usurp the firstborn position by having sex with his own mother, but he was instead cursed along with Canaan, the illegitimate offspring.(Gen 9:22)
- Abraham was not born first, but he was favored as God's firstborn by being the forefather of all who have faith.(Gen 11:26,32)
- Isaac was not born first, Ishmael was, yet Isaac was the firstborn of Abraham, the one who inherited and continued his family line (Gen 22:10-12) Isaac was even called the *only* son. (Gen 23:2)
- Jacob was not born first, but he used subterfuge to attain the position as firstborn. (Gen 25:31-34)
- Joseph was the 11th son of Jacob, but he was favored as the firstborn with a coat of many colors. He was later exalted to the position of firstborn over Egypt.(Gen 36:3;41:39-45)
- Judah was the 4th son of Jacob, yet he was blessed as firstborn and became the forefather of the messiah. (Gen 49:8-12)
- Judah begot twin sons, Perez and Zerah. Zerah putnout his hand from the womb and was counted as the firstborn, but then his beither Perez was born first, stealing his place. (Gen 38:27-30)
- Joseph's son Manasseh was born first, but Ephraim got the blessing as firstborn. (Gen 48:13-20)
- Moses was the second child, but God chose him over his brother Aaron as leader of the Israelites.






[^ignorant]: **Ignorant**: Lacking knowledge  or awareness in general.