---
title: Evidence for the resurrection
tags: [Apologetics, Evidence, Jesus Christ, Resurrection]
---
The resurrection of Jesus Christ is the central tenet of Christianity. Christianity stands or falls with whether this historical event took place or not. And without it, humanity is lost forever as slaves to death. So finding out uf this historical event took place or not should be of outmost interest to everyone.

In this article I will list evidence that Jesus Christ was a real historical person, that he was crucified as the Gospels describe, and that all the facts surrounding his death and the days that followed it are best explained by an actual resurrection.

# Are resurrections possible?

Since one of the possible conclusions of the facts is that a resurrection took place, it is vital that the reader does not harbor an anti-supernatural bias, but is open to where the facts lead them. The idea that something which is so rare that you have never witnessed must be impossible is actually illogical. How often something happens does not determine how possible it is. For example, proton decay[^proton], while so rare that it has never been observed, is not impossible. Neither is a resurrection impossible for someone having total control over physics. So this bias needs to go or it will cloud your judgment of the facts.

[^proton]: According to some physics theories, protons - which are otherwise stable particles - could spontaneously decay into other particles like positrons or neutral pions under certain circumstances. Scientists have been searching for signs of proton decay for many years using large detectors deep underground, but so far, no conclusive evidence has been found. Is their search a waste of research reaources? No, because while extremely rare (0 cases so far) and improbable, it is not impossible. And if observed, it would be a ground breaking discovery.

# Is the Bible a reliable historical docunent?

In this article we are going to go through various historical sources, among them the gospel accounts from the Bible. It is important to note tamhat the genre of the gospel accounts is considered to be "greco-roman historical biography". They are written in the same style and with the same purpose as historical biographies of other people such as Alexander the Great or Julius Caesar. I am not asking you to believe in the miracles Jesus performed any kore than I ask you to believe extraordinary claims about other historical people, but I do ask tou to consider the mundane records of what Jesus said and did as reliable as any other historical record at the time.

# But did Jesus exist at all?

# How did Jesus die?

# What happened after Jesus death?

## Burial

## The empty tomb discovered

## Supposed appearances

## The spread of christianity

# What other historians said



