---
title: List of scriptures proving the deity and personhood of the Holy Spirit 
tags: [Holy Spirit, Trinity, Lists]
---

Those who question the trinity doctrine usually spend most of their time questioning [the deity of Christ.](/List-of-scriptures-proving-the-deity-of-Christ/) But the deity and personhood of the Holy Spirit is also questioned, so this is a list of scriptures that shows that the Holy Spirit is a person, and that he is also God. Scriptures are presented in biblical order, with comments.

# Personhood v.s. personification 

A common argument against the personhood of the Holy Spirit is that what indicated his personhood is only personification of an impersonal force. 

The difference between a personification and a person is that personification is just attributing human qualities to non-human things, usually for poetic or metaphorical reasons. But the description of a person indicates things only real persons posess such as consciousness, intelligence, and emotions. 

For example, the Bible calls death an enemy, calling it "the king of terrors." (1 Cor 15:21; Job 18:14) But death is never said to have emotions, speaking, thinking, acting, and so on. However the Holy Spirit shows all the evidence of personhood, including having a will, emotions, sense of self, knowledge, autonomy, authority, and so on. Let's see a few.

# Scriptures proving the personhood of the Holy Spirit 

The scriptures clearly shows that the Holy Spirit is a person because he has abilities and does things that only persons can do, including:

- Has a will
- Is self aware
- Has authority
- Can swear oaths
- Is intelligent 
	- Knows things
	- Understands things
	- Can examine things
- Is emotional
	- Can be grieved
	- Can be provoked
	- Can be wrathful
- Speaks
	- Issues orders
- Is relational
	- Loves
	- Fellowships
	- Intercedes
- Is divine

## Knows things

> 1 Corinthians 2:10-11  these things God has revealed to us through the Spirit. For **the Spirit searches everything**, even the depths of God. 11 For who knows a person’s thoughts except the spirit of that person, which is in him? So also **no one comprehends the thoughts of God except the Spirit of God.**

The Holy Spirit searches everything, meaning being aware of all that is going on. Awareness is something only persons have. 

He also **comprehends** things. This is something only a conscious person can do.

## Can speak

The Holy Spirit is speaking, communicating with humans in a linguistic way.

> 2 Chronicles 18:23 Then Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah came near and struck Micaiah on the cheek and said, “Which way did **the Spirit of the LORD** go from me **to speak** to you?”

The Holy Spirit speaks to prophets. This is not in the sense that God is speaking *through* the spirit but that the spirit itself is speaking autonomously.

> 2 Samuel 23:2-3 “The Spirit of the LORD speaks by me; his word is on my tongue. 3 The God of Israel has spoken; …
Here the Holy Spirit is said to be speaking, and his (the Holy Spirit's) word is on the tongue of David. It also equates the Holy Spirit with God, showing his divinity.

> Acts 13:2 While they were worshiping the Lord and fasting, **the Holy Spirit said**, “Set apart for me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them.”

The Holy Spirit is communicating a message, which indicates an intelligent mind. He has a will, which indicates personhood. He issued a command which indicates authority. He is referring to himself, which indicates self awareness. 

## Can witness

> Acts 5:32 And **we are witnesses** to these things, and **so is the Holy Spirit**, whom God has given to those who obey him.”

The Holy Spirit is a witness to "these things". While an impersonal thing can poetically be called "a witness" to something, that use would be meaningless in the context of accusing the Jewish leaders of murdering Jesus. A witness to accuse them of this crime must be a conscious person, just as the apostles were.


## Can be grieved

> Ephesians 4:30 And do not **grieve the Holy Spirit of God**, by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption.

The Holy Spirit can be grieved, which shows that he has emotions, something only persons have.

> Isaiah 63:10 But they rebelled and **grieved his Holy Spirit**; therefore he turned to be their enemy, and himself fought against them.

Compare Psalm 78:40,41 where the same language is used about God, showing the Holy Spirit is God.

## Can be wrathful

> Hebrews 3:7-11 Therefore, **as the Holy Spirit says**, “Today, if you hear his voice, 8 do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion, on the day of testing in the wilderness, 9 where your fathers put me to the test and saw my works for forty years. 10 Therefore **I was provoked** with that generation, and said, ‘They always go astray in their heart; they have not known my ways.’ 11 As **I swore in my wrath**, ‘They shall not enter my rest.’”

This passage takes Psalm 95:7-11, which is God speaking about the Israelites, and says that it is the Holy Spirit speaking these things. This shows the Holy Spirit is speaking, thus an intelligent, conscious, communicative person, and also that he is equal to God.

This passage also shows that the Holy Spirit is self aware, can be tested, can be provoked, can experience feelings of wrath, and take oaths.

## Can love

> Romans 15:30 I appeal to you, brothers, by our Lord Jesus Christ and **by the love of the Spirit**, to strive together with me in your prayers to God on my behalf,

The Holy Spirit has the ability to show love, something only relational beings can.

## Can fellowship

> 2 Corinthians 13:14 The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God and **the fellowship of the Holy Spirit** be with you all.

The Holy Spirit can fellowship, which is something only personal beings can do.

## Can intercede

> Romans 8:26 Likewise the Spirit helps us in our weakness. For we do not know what to pray for as we ought, but **the Spirit himself intercedes for us** with groanings too deep for words.

The Holy Spirit intercedes, that is, goes between and prays to the Father for us. This indicates a relational being with a will, capable of independent thought and communication. 

## Has a will

> 1 Corinthians 12:11 All these are empowered by one and the same Spirit, who apportions to each one individually **as he wills.**

The Holy Spirit is in charge of apportioning out the gifts of the Spirit, according to his will. 

## Can identify a lie

> Acts 5:3-4 But Peter said, “Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart **to lie to the Holy Spirit** and to keep back for yourself part of the proceeds of the land? 4 While it remained unsold, did it not remain your own? And after it was sold, was it not at your disposal? Why is it that you have contrived this deed in your heart? **You have not lied to man but to God.”**

This shows that the Holy Spirit is a person whom someone would potentially try to lie to. He can identify a lie, and this requires a conscience with wisdom and intelligence, which indicates he is a person. (It's pointless to try to "lie" to an impersonal force or thing.) The passage also equates lying to the Holy Spirit with lying to God, showing that the Christians considered the Holy Spirit to be God.

# Stories showing his divinity and distinct personhood

## How many Yahwehs?

In Isaiah 48 verse 3-15 is the Lord Yahweh speaking. In verse 16 Yahweh says:

> Isaiah 48:16 Draw near to me *(Yahweh)*, hear this: from the beginning I *(Yahweh)* have not spoken in secret, from the time it came to be I *(Yahweh)* have been there.” And now the Lord GOD *(Yahweh)* has sent me *(Yahweh)*, and his *(Yahweh's)* Spirit.

In this verse Yahweh says that he has sent Yahweh along with the Spirit of Yahweh. So there are three persons here and all of them are identified as Yahweh. The Spirit of Yahweh is sent as a messenger alongside the narrator which is likely the Word of Yahweh. SonYahweh sends both his Word and his Spirit, and both of these are personal beings that are identified as Yahweh, also divine.

## Ezekiel and the burning man

Ezekiel 8 and 11 is an amazing account where Ezekiel is transported from Babylon to Jerusalem in a prophetic vision. In this vision, notice that there are at least two agents interacting with Ezekiel who are both called Yahweh. One is the Spirit of Yahweh, the other is the Glory of Yahweh. The Glory of Yahweh is another title for Jesus. (John 1:14;Hebrews 1:3) 

The Spirit of Yahweh is described as a man of fire, taking hold of Ezekiel and carrying him from place to place. 

**"A spirit"** Note that the New World Translation is translating "the Spirit" as "a spirit" in an attempt to fudge the fact that this is the Holy Spirit.

> Ezekiel 8: 1-3 In the sixth year, in the sixth month, on the fifth day of the month, as I sat in my house, with the elders of Judah sitting before me, **the hand of the Lord GOD (Yahweh)** fell upon me there. 2 Then I looked, and behold, **a form that had the appearance of a man**. Below what appeared to be his waist was **fire**, and above his waist was something like the appearance of brightness, like gleaming metal. 3 **He put out the form of a hand and took me by a lock of my head, and the Spirit lifted me up** between earth and heaven and brought me in visions of God to Jerusalem, to the entrance of the gateway of the inner court that faces north, where was the seat of the image of jealousy, which provokes to jealousy.

So Ezekiel is visited by the Lord Yahweh, whose hand fell on him. What he experienced is the presence of a man burning like fire. Fire is one of the attributes of the Holy Spirit. This man is tactile, because his hand grabs Ezekiel and lifts him. Ezekiel said this is "The Spirit", i.e. the Holy Spirit. And since it's the one putting his hand on him, and Ezekiel said that the hand of Yahweh came upon him, we know that the Holy Spirit is Yahweh.

- The Holy Spirit is a person
- He can have a tangible presence
- He is called The Lord/Yahweh 

Ezekiel is then transported to Jerusalem. There he sees this:

## Ezekiel 8: 4 

> And behold, **the glory of the God of Israel was there**, like the vision that I saw in the valley.

The **glory of the God of Israel was there**, and it's the same one sitting on the throne as in the first chapters of Ezekiel, meaning there are at least two agents here who are both Yahweh. 

The Glory of Yahweh is  none other than Jesus himself. (John 1:14; Heb 1:3) So in this scene, both the Son Jesus is present at a distance, and the Holy Spirit is present right beside Ezekiel, carrying him around. 

In Ezekiel 9:1,3 first the Spirit of Jehivah calls out and some men appear, then the Glory of Yahweh moves over from the distance to the threshold of the temple. In chapter 9 and 10, it is the Glory of Yahweh who issues orders to the men, then in chapter 11 the focus goes back to the Spirit of Yahweh speaking. Then in Ezekiel 11:22,23, the Glory of Yahweh lifts up from the temple and moves over to the Mount of Olives (coincidentally). Meanwhile the Spirit of Yahweh finally return Ezekiel to Babylon. (Ezekiel 11:24) So the Spirit of Yahweh and the Glory of Yahweh are two distinct agents, yet both are said to be Yahweh. (Ezekiel 9:4,5,8;10:20;11:5-21)

- The Holy Spirit and the Glory of God (Jesus) are distinct agents, both present at the same time
- Still, both are said to be Yahweh

### Ezekiel 8: 5 

> Then **he said to me**, “Son of man, lift up your eyes now toward the north.” So I lifted up my eyes toward the north, and behold, north of the altar gate, in the entrance, was this image of jealousy. 6 And he said to me, “Son of man, do you see what they are doing, the great abominations that the house of Israel are committing here, **to drive me far from my sanctuary?** But you will see still greater abominations.”

This is the Spirit next to Ezekiel speaking. He also speaks in Ezekiel 8:8,9,12,13,15,17,18;9:1-10;10:2;11:2-21) Also he refers to the sanctuary as his place, and the Israelites are driving him away from it.

- The Holy Spirit speaks and communicates with other conscious persons. This is evidence of personhood.
- The Holy Spirit claims ownership of the temple, showing that he is Yahweh God.


### Ezekiel 11: 5 

> And the Spirit of the LORD fell upon me, and he said to me, “Say, Thus says the LORD: So you think, O house of Israel. For I know the things that come into your mind.

In this verse the New Torld Trabslation suddenly translate it as "The Spirit of Yahweh", probably because "a spirit" would not make sense. But in doing so they make a fatal mistake that kills their doctrine. Because their translation also says "the spirit of Yahweh came upon me, **and he said to me**", which shows that the Holy Spirit 1) is a "he", a person, and 2) can speak, and command with will and authority, something only persons can. In the following verses the Holy Spirit speaks in the name of Yahweh, which shows that he is God, Yahweh.

- The Holy Spirit is a person with the pronoun "he".
- The Holy Spirit speaks and commands  with will and authority, something only persons can.

