---
title: New Testament references to Jehovah
tags: [Lists, Jesus is Jehovah, Paul]
---
Romans 4:3 (nwt-E) — For what does the scripture say? “Abraham put faith in Jehovah, and it was counted to him as righteousness.”
Genesis 15:6 (nwt-E) — And he put faith in Jehovah, and He counted it to him as righteousness.

Romans 4:7,8 (nwt-E) — “Happy are those whose lawless deeds have been pardoned and whose sins have been covered; 8 happy is the man whose sin Jehovah will by no means take into account.”
Psalms 32:1,2 (nwt-E) — Happy is the one whose transgression is pardoned, whose sin is covered. 2 Happy is the man whom Jehovah does not charge with guilt, In whose spirit there is no deceit.

Romans 9:28 (ESV)
for the Lord will carry out his sentence upon the earth fully and without delay.”

Romans 9:29 (ESV)
And as Isaiah predicted, “If the Lord of hosts had not left us offspring, we would have been like Sodom and become like Gomorrah.”

Romans 10:9 (ESV)
because, if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved.

Romans 10:13 (ESV)
For “everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.”

Romans 10:16 (ESV)
But they have not all obeyed the gospel. For Isaiah says, “Lord, who has believed what he has heard from us?”

Romans 11:3 (ESV)
“Lord, they have killed your prophets, they have demolished your altars, and I alone am left, and they seek my life.”

Romans 11:34 (ESV)
“For who has known the mind of the Lord, or who has been his counselor?”

Romans 12:11 (ESV) Do not be slothful in zeal, be fervent in spirit, serve the Lord.

Romans 12:19 (ESV)
Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God, for it is written, “Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord.”

Romans 14:4 (ESV) Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? It is before his own master that he stands or falls. And he will be upheld, for the Lord is able to make him stand.

Romans 14:6 (ESV) The one who observes the day, observes it in honor of the Lord. The one who eats, eats in honor of the Lord, since he gives thanks to God, while the one who abstains, abstains in honor of the Lord and gives thanks to God.

Romans 14:8 (ESV)
For if we live, we live to the Lord, and if we die, we die to the Lord. So then, whether we live or whether we die, we are the Lord’s.

Romans 14:11 (ESV)
for it is written, “As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God.”

Romans 15:11 (ESV)
And again, “Praise the Lord, all you Gentiles, and let all the peoples extol him.”

1 Corinthians 1:31 (ESV)
so that, as it is written, “Let the one who boasts, boast in the Lord.”

1 Corinthians 2:16 (ESV)
“For who has understood the mind of the Lord so as to instruct him?” But we have the mind of Christ.

1 Corinthians 3:20 (ESV)
and again, “The Lord knows the thoughts of the wise, that they are futile.”

1 Corinthians 4:4 (ESV) For I am not aware of anything against myself, but I am not thereby acquitted. It is the Lord who judges me.

1 Corinthians 4:19 (ESV) But I will come to you soon, if the Lord wills, and I will find out not the talk of these arrogant people but their power.

1 Corinthians 7:17 (ESV) Only let each person lead the life that the Lord has assigned to him, and to which God has called him. This is my rule in all the churches.

1 Corinthians 8:6 (ESV)
yet for us there is one God, the Father, from whom are all things and for whom we exist, and one Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom are all things and through whom we exist.

1 Corinthians 10:9 (ESV) We must not put Christ to the test, as some of them did and were destroyed by serpents,

1 Corinthians 10:21 (ESV) You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of demons.

1 Corinthians 10:22 (ESV) Shall we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than he?

1 Corinthians 10:26 (ESV)
For “the earth is the Lord’s, and the fullness thereof.”

1 Corinthians 11:32 (ESV) But when we are judged by the Lord, we are disciplined so that we may not be condemned along with the world.

1 Corinthians 14:21 (ESV)
In the Law it is written, “By people of strange tongues and by the lips of foreigners will I speak to this people, and even then they will not listen to me, says the Lord.”

1 Corinthians 16:7 (ESV) For I do not want to see you now just in passing. I hope to spend some time with you, if the Lord permits.

1 Corinthians 16:10 (ESV) When Timothy comes, see that you put him at ease among you, for he is doing the work of the Lord, as I am.

2 Corinthians 3:16 (ESV) But when one turns to the Lord, the veil is removed.

2 Corinthians 3:17 (ESV) Now the Lord is the Spirit, and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom.

2 Corinthians 3:18 (ESV) And we all, with unveiled face, beholding the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another. For this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit.



2 Corinthians 6:17 (ESV)
Therefore go out from their midst, and be separate from them, says the Lord, and touch no unclean thing; then I will welcome you,

2 Corinthians 6:18 (ESV)
and I will be a father to you, and you shall be sons and daughters to me, says the Lord Almighty.”

2 Corinthians 8:21 (ESV) for we aim at what is honorable not only in the Lord’s sight but also in the sight of man.

2 Corinthians 10:17 (ESV)
“Let the one who boasts, boast in the Lord.”

2 Corinthians 10:18 (ESV) For it is not the one who commends himself who is approved, but the one whom the Lord commends.

Galatians 3:6 (ESV) just as Abraham “believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness”?

Ephesians 2:20-21 (ESV) 20 built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone, 21 in whom the whole structure, being joined together, grows into a holy temple in the Lord.

Ephesians 5:17-19 (ESV) 17 Therefore do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. 18 And do not get drunk with wine, for that is debauchery, but be filled with the Spirit, 19 addressing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart,


Ephesians 6:1 (ESV)
Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right.

Ephesians 6:4 (ESV) Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord.

Ephesians 6:7-8 (ESV) 7 rendering service with a good will as to the Lord and not to man, 8 knowing that whatever good anyone does, this he will receive back from the Lord, whether he is a bondservant or is free.

Colossians 1:10 (ESV) so as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him: bearing fruit in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God;

Colossians 3:13 (ESV) bearing with one another and, if one has a complaint against another, forgiving each other; as the Lord has forgiven you, so you also must forgive.

Colossians 3:16 (ESV) Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, with thankfulness in your hearts to God.

Colossians 3:22-24 (ESV) 22 Bondservants, obey in everything those who are your earthly masters, not by way of eye-service, as people-pleasers, but with sincerity of heart, fearing the Lord. 23 Whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord and not for men, 24 knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as your reward. You are serving the Lord Christ.



Philippians 2:11 (ESV)
and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.

1 Thessalonians 1:8 (ESV) For not only has the word of the Lord sounded forth from you in Macedonia and Achaia, but your faith in God has gone forth everywhere, so that we need not say anything.

1 Thessalonians 4:6 (ESV) that no one transgress and wrong his brother in this matter, because the Lord is an avenger in all these things, as we told you beforehand and solemnly warned you.

1 Thessalonians 4:15 (ESV) For this we declare to you by a word from the Lord, that we who are alive, who are left until the coming of the Lord, will not precede those who have fallen asleep.

1 Thessalonians 5:2 (ESV) For you yourselves are fully aware that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night.

2 Thessalonians 2:2 (ESV) not to be quickly shaken in mind or alarmed, either by a spirit or a spoken word, or a letter seeming to be from us, to the effect that the day of the Lord has come.

2 Thessalonians 2:13 (ESV) But we ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers beloved by the Lord, because God chose you as the firstfruits to be saved, through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth.

2 Thessalonians 3:1 (ESV) Finally, brothers, pray for us, that the word of the Lord may speed ahead and be honored, as happened among you,

2 Timothy 1:18 (ESV) may the Lord grant him to find mercy from the Lord on that day!--and you well know all the service he rendered at Ephesus.

2 Timothy 2:19 (ESV)
But God’s firm foundation stands, bearing this seal: “The Lord knows those who are his,” and, “Let everyone who names the name of the Lord depart from iniquity.”

2 Timothy 4:14 (ESV) Alexander the coppersmith did me great harm; the Lord will repay him according to his deeds.

Hebrews 2:13 (ESV) And again, “I will put my trust in him.” And again, “Behold, I and the children God has given me.”

Hebrews 7:21 (ESV) but this one was made a priest with an oath by the one who said to him: “The Lord has sworn and will not change his mind, ‘You are a priest forever.’”

Hebrews 8:2 (ESV) a minister in the holy places, in the true tent that the Lord set up, not man.

Hebrews 8:8 (ESV) For he finds fault with them when he says: “Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will establish a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah,

Hebrews 8:10 (ESV) For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord: I will put my laws into their minds, and write them on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.

Hebrews 8:11 (ESV) And they shall not teach, each one his neighbor and each one his brother, saying, ‘Know the Lord,’ for they shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest.

Hebrews 10:16 (ESV) “This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, declares the Lord: I will put my laws on their hearts, and write them on their minds,”

Hebrews 10:30 (ESV) For we know him who said, “Vengeance is mine; I will repay.” And again, “The Lord will judge his people.”

Hebrews 12:5 (ESV) And have you forgotten the exhortation that addresses you as sons? “My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor be weary when reproved by him.

Hebrews 12:6 (ESV) For the Lord disciplines the one he loves, and chastises every son whom he receives.”

Hebrews 13:6 (ESV) So we can confidently say, “The Lord is my helper; I will not fear; what can man do to me?”









