---
title: Slavery in the Bible
tags: [Apologetics, Old covenant, Slavery, Mosaic law]
---

The word slavery brings up horrible images of lives and families destroyed, people kidnapped from their homes, shipped to foreign lands, treated inhumanely, being forced to do hard labor against their will with no pay, being tortured, chained up and experiencing immense suffering. So when the topic of slavery is dealt with in the Bible, many wonder how a loving God could allow something so horrible to happen? In this article we will look at what slavery described in the Bible was like, and see if it matches common assumptions.

# The Patron-Client relationship 

In ancient societies and even many modern ones, societies are based on mutual relationships. One common form of relationship between people is the patron-client relationship. It is simply where a person who is more famous, wealthy, or powerful enters a mutually beneficial relationship with a person who is less successful. The powerful person, the Patron, takes on the responsibility for taking care of the less powerful person, the Client. A patron may for example provide money, food, housing, or other necessities to the client, as well as helping and protecting the client. The client in turn works for the patron doing things to increase their fame, fortune or power. An artist might have a rich patron whom he would paint pictures or make sculptures of. A cook, butler, or housemaid may be living in their patron's house being on 24/7 standby. It was a loosely regulated way to scratch one anothers' backs so to speak. Both parties benefitted.
This form of relationship extended from the highest echelons, with the king or emperor, down to the lowest strata of society. Everyone had mutually beneficial relationships with others on different levels of society. This is the web of relationships that has held together society for millennia in the absence of modern governmental social programs.

# The patriarchal period

If you read the Bible you see patron-client relationships everywhere. For example, Abraham had a slave or servant, or client, called Eleazar. He was kind of like Abraham's butler, and most trusted ally. Eleazar was given very serious tasks that required a lot of trustworthiness. This relationship was so serious and intimate that if Abraham had failed to sire an heir, Eleazar would have even been the one to inherit his wealth. Not bad for a "slave".

Abraham's wife, Sarah, had a maidservant name Hagar. When Sarah couldn't conceive a child, she allowed her husband to take Hagar as his concubine, in order to produce an heir. So the son of a "slave" would have been the one to inherit Abraham's wealth. 

Abraham's grandson Jacob/Israel, had to flee his home and entered into a client relationship with his uncle Laban. Israel came empty handed but benefitted so much from their arrangement that when he left, he had four wives, 11 kids and hundreds upon hundreds of animals as well as servants of his own. Being a servant could be lucrative.

Israel's son Joseph, was sold as a slave into Egypt. And in the household he ended up in he was so competent that his patron, Potiphar, put him in charge over everything in his house. Later on Joseph entered into a client relationship with the Pharao and was put in charge of the entire land of Egypt.

In short, the servant was in a mutually beneficial patron-client relationship with the master, could have a very high status, and was often seen as part of the family, even so much so that they could inherit.

# In Egypt

Sadly the offspring of Israel were eventually put into forced labor. This kind of slavery with harsh unpaid labor and mistreatment is more akin to what most people think about when they hear about slavery.

However God saved them from the slavery in Egypt, and this echoes the general motif of the whole Bible: How God saves us out of slavery. Because whether we like it or not we are all slaves to something, either to Sin and Death, or to God. We can never be free, we can only choose our master. And the Exodus story is an example of this.

In any case this sort of slavery is never condoned in the Bibel. On the contrary, God specifically told his people to remember what the Egyptians had done to them, so that they would not do it to one another. (Deuteronomy 15:12-15)

# Under the Mosaic covenant 

However the slavery as described in the Torah is not really slavery, but rather bond-servitude. So in this article such servants will be referred to as bond-servants to distinguish them from the horrific types of slavery most people think about.



# Kidnapping was illegal

One reason why bond-servitude as described in the Torah is not common slavery is that according to the Torah, kidnapping was illegal.

# A bond-servant was a contractual worker

As the name suggests, the bond-servant was a contractual worker. The Torah describes how such a person would voluntarily sell himself into servitude. A common reason was if he came upon hard times and couldn't make ends meet. So a simple solution was to enter into a contract with a more well-off patron as a worker. He would work in exchange for room and board, for a limited time, was well protected by the law, and could often expect remuneration at the end of this period.

# Servitude was time-limited

According to the Torah, every 7 year was a Sabbath year. This meant many things, but among them was that bond-servants were to be set free. 

If a bond-servant was satisfied with his patron, he could voluntarily decide to stay on for the rest of his life. Then the patron would have to take care of him almost like a family member.

# A bond-servant was reimbursed for their work.

When a bond-servant left his service with his patron, the Torah commands that the patron remunerates his client by giving him enough to start his life as a freed man.

# A bond-servant could run away at any time

If a master wss mistreating his bond-servant, there was a specific law that said that if he ran away from there, no one should return him. Rather they should give him a place to live and allow him to become a part of their society. So  pravtically speaking, being a bond-servant was entirely voluntary.

# A bond-servant was treated well

The Torah was at the time the epitome of virtue when it came to treating bond-servants well. If compared to other contemporary law codes such as the code of Hamurabi, the difference is like night and day. 

The code of Hamurabi prescribes that a master could treat his slaves however he wished, even mutilating or killing them. If a slave ran away, anyone who found him had to bring him back. And if they didn't they could even be executed for not bringing back a runaway slave.

The Torah however had laws against treating your bond-servant poorly. If you abused a bond-servant so that he died, you would be executed for murder yourself. So the bond-servant had the same legal protection as a free person.