---
title: The Islamic dilemma
tags: [Islam, Apologetics, Quran, Bible]
---

The Islamic dilemma is a logical problem with the Quran and Islamic teaching, whereas the Quran affirms that the Bible is the uncorrupted word of God, however it also contradicts the Bible, and the Bible rejects the Quran.

The short sversion of the dilemma is:

Given what the Quran teaches, if the Bible is false or corrupted, the Quran is false. If the Bible is true or uncorrupted, the Quran is false. In either case, the Quran is false.

Here is a more detailed version:

# Premises

## P1. The Quran affirms that the Bible is the Word of Allah/God.

The Quran repeatedly confirms that the Bible is the word of Allah, and calls Jews and Christians "the people of the Book". It is "confirming that which is with you", and "verifying that which you have", showing that the Bibles in the 7th century were approved by Allah. It says the Quran is "confirming all previous scriptures" and that Allah sent down the Torah, Psalms, Gospels and all other scriptures. It confirms that the previous messengers were all from Allah. And says that the Quran is corroborating the Torah and Gospel. It says that Jews and Christians should judge from the Bible, and so did Muhammad. That Muslims should ask Jews and Christians about theological matters.

See Surah 2:4,40-41,89,91,97,101,111,113,121,;3:3-4,23,58,78-79,81,93,184;4:47;5:44,48,66,68,84;6:91-92;10:37,94;12:111;16:43;20:133;21:7,48,105;26:196;28:48-49;29:27;35:25,31;37:37;40:53;46:12,30;87:18-19


## P2. The Quran affirms that the Word of Allah (the Bible) can not be changed or corrupted.

Surah 6:115

## P3. The Quran contradicts the Bible.

## P4. The Bible rejects the truthfulness of the Quran.

# Conclusions

If the Bible is not the word of Allah (P1), then the Quran is false.

If the Bible is corrupted (P2), then the Quran is false.

If the Quran is true and the Bible is false (P3), then P1 and P2 is false, and thus the Quran is false.

If the Bible is correct then the Quran is false. (P4)

If the Bible is correct in P1 and P2, and the Quran contradicts the Bible in P3, then the Quran is false.

If the Quran is correct in P1 and P2 then the Bible is true, and if the Bible is true (P4) then the Quran is false. 

If P3 and/or P4 is true, then either P1 and/or P2 are false, which means the Quran is false.

# Common rebuttals

## "The Bible has been corrupted"

This goes against what the Quran says in P1 and P2. See also ["The Bible has been corrupted"](/the-Bible-has-been-corrupted).

# Summary

There is no logical combination in which P1-4 can all be true, and therefore in every possible case, the Quran is false. And if the Quran is false, Muhammad was a false prophet and Islam is a false religion.