---
title: Who was Johannes Greber?
tags: [Jehovah's witnesses, Spiritism, Heresy]
---

Johannes Greber (1874–1944) born in Wenigerath, Germany, was a Catholic priest. , later turned spiritist, and translator known for his unique interpretations of Christian beliefs. He gained attention for his unorthodox views on spirituality and his claim of receiving guidance from spirits.

## The Transition to Spiritism

Greber, originally a Catholic priest, underwent a significant transformation in his spiritual beliefs. He delved into spiritism, a belief system centered around communication with spirits from the afterlife. This shift marked a departure from traditional Christian teachings and placed him at odds with mainstream religious authorities.

## The New Testament Translation

One of Greber's most notable contributions was [his translation of the New Testament](https://thyreon.com/public/pdf/Johannes-Greber-New-Testament.pdf), here linked only for reference. He asserted that spirits provided him with insights and guidance during the translation process. 

I do not condone or promite this translation, rather I condemn it, but I link it here only as reference so that you can see how demonic it is.

The foreword says:

> The task was not simple. Many contradictions between what appears in the ancient scrolls and the New Testament, as we have grown to know it, arose and were the subject of his constant prayers for guidance — prayers that were answered, and the discrepancies clarified to him, by **God's Spirit World.** At times he was given the correct answers in **large illuminated letters and words passing before his eyes**. Other times he was given the correct answers during prayer meetings. **His wife, a medium of God's Spirit world** was often instrumental in conveying the correct answers from **God's Messengers** to Pastor Greber.

Notice the odd choices of words. He does not claim to get inspiration from the Holy Spirit, but from "God's Spirit World", from "messengers" and that he had visions of letters passing before his eyes. His wife was a spiritistic "medium of of God's Spirit world". 




## Unconventional Views

Greber's interpretations of Christian concepts often diverged from traditional beliefs. Notably, he propagated the idea that Jesus' resurrection was spiritual rather than bodily. According to Greber, Jesus materialized a physical body with wounds when appearing to the apostles after his resurrection, in order to convince them. This perspective sharply contrasted with mainstream Christian teachings on the bodily resurrection of Jesus.

## Controversy and Impact

Greber's teachings and actions sparked controversy within both Christian circles and broader society. His involvement in spiritism and his alternative interpretations of Christian doctrine led to his excommunication from the Catholic Church in 1926. Despite this, his work has attracted the attention of those interested in exploring unconventional spiritual perspectives.

