---
title: Why Michael can't save you
tags: [Arianism, Jehovah's witnesses]
---

Jehovah's witnesses have the peculiar teaching that Jesus Christ is just another name for the Archangel Michael. There are some problems with this teaching which could prove fatal.

# Does the teaching that Jesus is Michael make biblical sense?

The teaching that Jesus is Michael the Archangel is never explicitly stated in the Bible. It is essentially based on two scriptures, 1 Thessalonians 4:16 and Jude 9.

> 1 Thessalonians 4:16 because the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a commanding call, with an archangel’s voice and with God’s trumpet, and those who are dead in union with Christ will rise first.

> Jude 9 But when Miʹcha·el the archangel had a difference with the Devil and was disputing about Moses’ body, he did not dare to bring a judgment against him in abusive terms, but said: “May Jehovah rebuke you.”

The argument goes that since 1 Thessalonians 4:16 says that Jesus is coming **with an archangel’s voice**, so therefore he must be an archangel. And since the only archangel who is named in the Bible is Michael the Archangel, then Jesus must be Michael.

However this has more holes than a Swiss cheese in a broken sieve. 

The Bible says Jesus will come back **with** the voice of an archangel, not that the voice is his. Since Jesus will come back together with myriads of angels, it is no wonder if there are some archangels in his posse.

Even if the voice belongs to Jesus, it would only be a description of the quality of voice. If the passage wanted to communicate that Jesus himself is an archangel, it would have just said so.

The verse also says Jesus will come back **with God's trumpet**. So if coming **with the voice of an archangel** means he's an archangel, then coming **with God's trumpet** would by the same logic mean that he is God. 

The verse also says "an" archangel, an indefinite article indicating there are many archangels. If there existed only one archangel, it would say "with the voice of **the** archangel".

Also there is nothing that indicates there is only one archangel. Daniel 10:13 says Michael is only **one of the foremost princes**, which is synonymous with archangels. That James writes Michael **the** archangel doesn't mean he is the only one, it only specifies his job title.

So the teaching is far-fetched at best, easy to disprove, and totally unnecessary. There is no need to equate Jesus with Michael. Jesus is Jesus and Michael is Michael. Rather trying to equate Jesus with any angel could be devastating. Neither Michael nor any other created angel can save you, only Jesus, the eternal Son of God, can be the savior, king, and mediator for mankind.

# An angel can not be the unique Son of God

> Hebrews 1: 5 For example, to which one of the angels did God ever say: “You are my son; today I have become your father”? And again: “I will become his father, and he will become my son”?

The answer to this rhetorical question was obvious to Paul's readers: "No one." Paul is not talking about the general sense in ehich all created beings are sons of God, but in the special sense of a Father and his unique Son. No angel has this privilege, however Jesus has this privilege. 

# Angels can not be mediators between God and Man

The true Jesus is both God and Man, he is both divine and human. That's how he can be a mediator between God and Men, between Divinity and Humanity.

The archangel Michael however is neither God not aman. He has no business interfering in the relationship between the two. 

# He is not eternal and infinite

Jesus came to pay the price for the sins of the whole world. all sins, past, present and future. The sins of billions of people. The only way the value of his life would be sufficient to cover all of this is if he is greater than all of humanity. Only if he is eternal and infinite would his life be valuable enough to suffice. 

The archangel Michael however is a created creature. 

# He can not be king

> Hebrews 1: 13 But about which of the angels has he ever said: “Sit at my right hand until I place your enemies as a stool for your feet”?

The answer to this rhetorical question was obvious to Paul's readers: "No one." No angel has the privilege of ruling.

> Hebrews 2:5 For it is not to angels that he has subjected the inhabited earth to come, about which we are speaking.

The earth has not been subjected to angels. It has been subjected to humans, and it is humans who will rule it together with Jesus, who is still human. Jesus is not an angel neither before nor after his earhly sojourn. If he was,he would not qualify to rule the earth.






