---
title: "Arian proof texts: John 17:3 - the only true God"
tags: [Arianism, Trinity, Jehovah's Witnesses]
---

John 17:3 is often used as an argument against the trinity doctrine by Arians like Jehovah's Witnesses. The argument goes that since it mentions the one true God, as well as Jesus Christ, then Jesus Christ can not be the one true God. Also the way the scripture is translated in the New World Translation, it makes it sound like eternal life is a result of learning about God. This article will deal with both issues.

# Knowing God, a cause or result?

So first of all I want to adress the idea that everlasting life is a result of knowing God. Let's read the passage in context. The context is that Jesus is giving his farewell sermon to the disciples that begins all the way back in chapter 13. When he comes to chapter 17, he begins a prayer to God.

> John 17:1-3 1 Jesus spoke these things, and raising his eyes to heaven, he said: “Father, the hour has come. Glorify your son so that your son may glorify you, 2 just as you have given him authority over all flesh, so that he may give everlasting life to all those whom you have given to him. 3 This means everlasting life, their coming to know you, the only true God, and the one whom you sent, Jesus Christ.

 This would be a case of works-righteousness, meaning that we could somehow save ourselves by doing works, namely studying about God. No, no amount of studying can give us eternal life. The Bible consistenly shows this. In John 5:39 Jesus actually condemns this idea saying "You are searching the Scriptures because you think that you will have everlasting life by means of them; and these are the very ones that bear witness about me." So everlasting life lies not in studying about God, but in Jesus. John 3:15, 16, 36, and 6:40, 47 says that the one having faith in Jesus have everlasting life. Ephesians 2:8-10 says that we are saved by faith, not works (study). Scriptures like John 10:28 says that Jesus is the one who gives eternal life. And so does John 17:2, "so that [Jesus] may give everlasting life to all those whom you have given to him."

Yes, the passage in John 17:1-3 shows that eternal life comes, not from learning about God, but from Jesus! Jesus is the one who gives eternal life to all who have faith in him. So why does verse 3 say "this means everlasting life, their coming to know you, the only true God"? It sounds like coming to know God **means** everlasting life. But this is a biased translation. The verse actually says "this **is** eternal life, that they know you..."

Verses 2 and 3 together is telling you that "You can get everlasting life from Jesus, and **when you have received** eternal life from him, **then** you have the opportunity to get to know God". So knowing God is a **result** of everlasting life, not a **cause** for everlasting life.

This is in line with bible teaching.

# God AND Jesus?

