Let's take a look at all alleged cases of genocide in the Bible and see what is actually going on.

# **Prerequisites**

Before we begin there are some general points that need to be understood.

## **Prescription** v.s. Description

Descriptive means it just describes what took place. Prescriptive means that it prescribes something as something you should or shouldn't do. The Bible covers a lot of history and most of it is descriptive. It just describes what happened, without making a moral judgment or condoning it in any way. It just tells you who did what to whom and what the results were. You can learn both good and bad examples from this method. Sometimes it is prescriptive when it tells people what ought and ought not be done. Examples of this are the Laws or direct orders from prophets and similar. Even in these cases it is important to look at context.

## Different contexts

"If you take the text out of context all you get is a con" is a very true statement. Taking things out of context is a sure way to misunderstand them. You must always understand that you're dealing with a document written by people thousands of years ago, over periods of hundreds of years, in lands far away, from cultures vastly different from ours which influence how people think and act, in languages that have different idioms and ways to express ideas, in situation where things worked differently. In order to understand the text we need to take these things into consideration. Reading the text through a modern lens is not only counterproductive but also intellectually dishonest.

## Hyperbole

Hyperbole is a very common cultural language feature in ancient times. Writers and speakers used to exaggerate things for emphasis, sometimes to a ridiculous degree. An example is when Jesus told people to remove the rafter out of their eye. How would a rafter which can be a foot wide fit in an eye socket? Of course it can't, but the point wasn't to give an anatomy lecture, but to help people understand the lesson of not being judgmental. In Numbers 13:33 the spies who had returned from searching the land of Canaan say that they saw giants there of such a size that they were in their own a sight but as grasshoppers. In Deuteronomy 1:28, cities with high walls about them are said to be "walled up to heaven." In the flood account it says that the waters covered "all the earth" but it also says that the mountain tops were visible. None of these are lies, but only a way to make a point that is also common in our days. When a football fan says "we crushed the other team", no one thinks there was a bloodbath on the field. When a comedian says "I murdered the audience", we know they mean that the audience enjoyed the show. So when we encounter an all-encompassing or exaggerated expression it is not smart to conclude that it is meant to be taken literally.

## What is **violence**?
