Who or what is Jesus? That question is important for proper biblical understanding. Get it right and the Bible makes a lot of sense. Get it wrong and you end up with a lot of contradictory and bad theology.

One answer to "what is Jesus?" is that Jesus is an angel, often more specifically the Archangel Michael. Let's look at this claim.

# What does "angel" mean?

Angel, from the Greek Angelos (ἄγγελος), simply means a messenger. The Hebrew word Malak (מַלְאָךְ) used for angels in the Old Testament also means messenger. It is not a description of what a being is, but what it does. It's a job description.

An angel could be anyone who delivers a message. Not only spirit creatures. Sometimes it is used about humans as well. Sometimes it is even used about God himself.

## "The Angel of the Lord"

The Old Testament often talks about "the Angel if the Lord" or "the Angel of Yahweh/Jehovah." In fact this is the first occurrence of the word angel in the Bible. 

This is a very special character and not just any regular low level messenger. The Angel of the Lord often has powers and privileges that belong only to God. For example He has the authority to forgive or condemn sin. He is addressed as "Yahweh" and treated as interchangeable with Yahweh. 

The traditional understanding is that the Angel of the Lord is basically just Yahweh himself manifesting to deliver a message to people, doing the task of a messenger, or "angel".

So to avoid confusion, in this article when we talk about "angels" we do not mean humans being messengers, or even Yahweh himself acting as a messenger in "the Angel of the Lord". But we mean low or high ranking created spirit beings. This is the default sense conveyed in the Bible.

# Is Jesus an angel?

Some people believe that Jesus is an angel. Specifically Michael the Archangel. This means to say that Jesus is a created spirit being, albeit high ranking. Is this accurate?

In the sense of ange meaning a messenger, yes, Jesus is a messenger. 

But in the sense of a created spirit creature, let's see what the book of Hebrews says.

# Hebrews 1-2 explains who Jesus is

The first and second chapter of Hebrews totally obliterates the idea that Jesus is an angel. 

> Hebrews 1:2 but in these last days he has spoken to us by his Son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, **through whom also he created the world**.

Jesus **created the world.** By "world" the Bible means everything that is created. (Compare John 1:3 and Colossians 1:16.) The word translated "world" includes all if the universe, both space, time, matter and energy, as well as the created spiritual world. 

The Angels are created beings, they are part of the created world. Jesus however is the uncreated creator of everything, including the angels. He is beyond the world, beyond any created angels. He is beyond time itself, meaning he is eternal.

> Hebrews 1:3a He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature,

God is beyond this world and therefore invisible. But he can still be seen! How?

Because Jesus is the **radiance of the glory of God**. 

Like the sun has its rays, God has  Jesus. God is invisible, but Jesus is what makes his glory visible. Like the sun rays makes it possible to see the sun, so Jesus makes it possible to see God.

Some people, like Abraham, Moses, Joshua, Gideon and more, got the privilege of seeing God without dying. What they saw was the pre-incarnate Jesus. 

Jesus is also the **exact imprint** of God's nature. 

The word translated exact imprint is the Greek *charaktēr*, which as you can hear is related to our word character. The word is used in theatre, movies and similar for what an actor plays, trying to embody an idea into visual form. Text characters, like the letters in these words, are also visual representations of sounds or ideas. 

So Jesus being the "character" or exact imprint of God's very being, essence, or nature means that when the very essence of God enters this world, what you see is Jesus. 

In short, Jesus is not an angel, but God in manifested form.

> Hebrews 1:3b and he upholds the universe by the word of his power. After making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high,

Jesus **upholds the universe by the word of his power.** 

That means that every atom in the universe is sustained in existence only because Jesus wills it to exist. 

Jesus could end the entire universe with a thought. He could create a new universe with another thought. This is what it means to be almighty. 

So Jesus is not an angel, but he is the almighty creator and sustainer of the universe. 

> Hebrews 1:4 having become as much superior to angels as the name he has inherited is more excellent than theirs.   

This verse again emphasizes the difference between Jesus and the angels. Even thought he became human, being lower than the angels, he is now again in his original position as God, far above any angelic being. (See Hebrews 2:7-9; Philippians 2:5-11)

> Hebrews 1:5 "to which one of the angels did God ever say: “You are my son; today I have become your father”"   

This question is asked rhetorically because as both Paul, his audience, and everyone who has read the Bible knows, the answer is "no one". It could be rephrased as "to **none** of the angels did God ever say: “You are my son; today I have become your father”".

The gist of this question is to emphasize the difference between Jesus and the angels. 

> Hebrews 1:6 "[God] let all of God’s angels worship him.” 

This verse shows that every single angel worships Jesus. 

This tells us two things:

1. Jesus is not an angel.
2. Jesus receives worship as God.

> Hebrews 1:7,8 "he says about the angels: “He makes his angels spirits, and his ministers a flame of fire.” 8 But about the Son, he says: “Your throne, o God, is forever and ever" 

The verse is clear that Jesus is treated completely different from the angels. The angels are called servants. Jesus is however called God and is sitting on a throne as king. What a vast difference!

> Hebrews 1:10-12 And, “You, Lord, laid the foundation of the earth in the beginning, and the heavens are the work of your hands; 11 they will perish, but you remain; they will all wear out like a garment, 12 like a robe you will roll them up, like a garment they will be changed. But you are the same, and your years will have no end.”

These are words God the Father speaks about Jesus. They are quoted from Psalm 102:25-27 and applied to Jesus. However Psalm 102 is about Jehovah, so Paul is taking a scripture written about Jehovah and applys it to Jesus. This shows that Paul considers Jesus to be identical to Jehovah.

The passage shows that Jesus is the uncreated creator of everything. In the beginning Jesus created the heavens and the earth. (Genesis 1:1)

Jesus is not an angel, but Jesus is Jehovah, the creator of heaven and earth.

> Heb 1:13,14 "about which of the angels has he ever said: “Sit at my right hand until I place your enemies as a stool for your feet”?" 14 Are they not all ministering spirits sent out to serve for the sake of those who are to inherit salvation?

Paul uses another rhetorical question to emphasize the vast difference between Jesus and the angels. No angel has ever been told to sit as king on the throne of God. But Jesus, the Son, has this privilege. 

It also reiterates that angels are servants. A far cry from Jesusnwhomis the king of kings and lord of lords. This clearly emphasizes the vast difference between Jesus and the angels.

> Hebrews 2:5 For it was not to angels that God subjected the world to come, of which we are speaking.

The world to come is not subjected to angels. However Jesus is going to rule it, so it is subjected to him. Hence Jesus is not an angel.

# Conclusion

According to the first two chapters of Hebrews, Jesus is definitely not a created angelic being of any rank. Hence he can not logically be Michael the Archangel either. The chapters emphasize the distinction between Jesusband the angels, and repeatedly call Jesus God, and assigning him divine status.
