This claim stems from an overly simplistic way of thinking that if a book contains violence it is therefore bad. The truth is more nuanced.
<h2>Description, prescription, context and universality</h2>
The vast majority of depictions of violence in the Bible are descriptive ((Descriptive means that they merely describe what is going on without making a moral judgment about it or ordering anyone to do it.)) rather than prescriptive ((Prescriptive means that the text prescribes, commands or orders a certain behavior.)). Most of the Old Testament is basically a <em>description</em> of what humans are like - violent and sinful - and how when they do as they please things go badly. This is done as a lesson for us on how <strong>not</strong> to act. Very few depictions of violence in the Bible are prescriptive.

The few depictions of violence in the Bible which <strong>are</strong> prescriptive occur in a very narrow context. For example the commands to Joshuah during the conquest of the Promised Land. These commands were limited to a short time, a specific place and only applied for a specific people against a specific enemy for a specific purpose. There is no way to argue that these are universal or that they somehow apply to believers in other eras or places.

<a href="https://thyreon.com/violence-in-the-quran/">However the Quran is full of <strong>prescriptive</strong> commands to go and do violence.</a> The problem with these commands is that nowhere in the Quran itself are these commands to fight restricted to a special time period or against a special people group. Unlike the divine commands found in the book of Joshua in the Old Testament that were specific to a time, place and people group, Orthodox Muslims believe that the Quranic commands are universal and thus applicable for <strong>all</strong> times and places.

Thus when the Quran commands "fight in the cause of God those who fight you" and "slay them wherever you catch them", this still applies to Muslims today. And such promises like "those who have fought or been slain, surely I will blot out from them their sins and admit them into Gardens with rivers flowing beneath; a reward from the presence of God", meaning that the surest way to get to paradise is to kill people and die in the name of Allah, this applies today too. These explain suicide bombings and other acts of terrorism. People like Al-Qaeda and ISIS are merely loyally following a universally applicable command from their God. Whereas no one can argue that something like Joshua receiving command to capture the city of Hebron is applicable to any Jews or Christians at any other time or place.
