# The Trinity, Definitions and common misunderstandings

The Christian doctrine of the Trinity is the central doctrine concerning the nature of God, which defines one God existing in three coequal[^coequal], coeternal[^coeternal], consubstantial[^cosubstantial] divine persons: God the Father, God the Son (Jesus Christ) and God the Holy Spirit, three distinct persons (hypostases) sharing one essence/substance/nature (homoousion). In this context, one essence/nature defines **what** God is, while the three persons define **who** God is. Since what someone is and who someone is are two distinct concepts there is no contradiction in the idea tgat God is one essence with three persons.

[^coequal]: Being equal in essence. No one is more of less "God", however in the cooperation between the persons of God, there is a certain hierarchy of authority and responsibility.
[^coeternal]: All if the are eternal. None has a beginning nor an end. 
[^cosubstantial]: Consisting of the same substance or essence. Substance is whatever makes a being what it is. For example the human substance is what makes a person human.

## Titles and attributes of God

Notice that in the Bible there are several titles and attributes that identify Jehovah God. Whenever someone is said to posess these, it is an indication that the writer and readers understands that it's talking about God. Some of these attributes are given to God in the old testament and to Jesus Christ in the New Testament, showing that the weiter and readers considered them to be one and the same. These include [The Son of Man](#the-son-of-man), [The one who comes on the clouds](#the-cloud-rider), [The one to whom every knee will bow](the-one-to-whom-every-knee-will-bow), [The one with the highest name](#the-one-with-the-highest-name), etc. These help us understand and identify God in scripture, and are exlained before the footnotes.


## Common misunderstandings

- The trinity doctrine doesn't teach three gods or a triad if gods. That is called tritheism.
- The trinity doctrine doesn't teach that there are three persons in one person. That makes no sense.
- The trinity doctrine doesnt teach that one person manifest in three different modes, facets or aspects. That's modalism.
- The trinity doctrine does not teach that God consists of three parts that together form one God. That's partialism.

# The Trinity in scripture

Here is a list of scriptures that harmonize with or prove the trinity doctrine, along with explanations as to what part of the doctrine they touch on.

## Exodus 19:9 

> And Jehovah said to Moses, “Behold, **I am coming to you in a thick cloud**, that the people may hear when I speak with you, and may also believe you forever.” When Moses told the words of the people to Jehovah,

[See The Cloud Rider](#the-cloud-rider)

## Deuteronomy 33:26 

> “There is none like God, O Jeshurun, **who rides through the heavens** to your help, through the skies in his majesty.

[See The Cloud Rider](#the-cloud-rider)


## Nehemiah 9:5 

> Then the Levites, Jeshua, Kadmiel, Bani, Hashabneiah, Sherebiah, Hodiah, Shebaniah, and Pethahiah, said, “Stand up and bless the LORD your God from everlasting to everlasting. **Blessed be your glorious name, which is exalted above all blessing and praise**.

Jehovah has the highest name. Philippians 2:9 reveal that Jesus is the one with the highest name. So either Jesus is Jehovah or Jehovah is not the highest name.

## Job 9:8 

> who **alone** stretched out the heavens and **trampled the waves of the sea;**

The ability to walk on water is a unique attribute of God. In Matthew 14:25, Mark 6:48 and John 6:19 Jesus is the one who walks on water, so the disciples immediately realize that Jesus is Jehovah.

## Psalms 68:32-33 

> O kingdoms of the earth, sing to God; sing praises to the Lord, 33 to **him who rides in the heavens**, the ancient heavens; behold, he sends out his voice, his mighty voice.

[See The Cloud Rider](#the-cloud-rider)

## Psalm 83:18 

> that they may know that you alone, whose name is Jehovah, are the Most High over all the earth. 

This scripture tellsnus that Jehovah God is the highest over all the earth. Philippians 2:10-11 shows that Jesus is the one who is the most highbover all the earth.

## Psalm 102:25-27 

> Of old you [Jehovah] laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the work of your hands. 26 They will perish, but you will remain; they will all wear out like a garment. You will change them like a robe, and they will pass away, 27 but you are the same, and your years have no end.

Paul takes this scripture about Jehovah and applies it to Jesus in Hebrews 1:10-12, because Paul believed that Jesus is the Jehovah of the Old Testament.

## Psalms 104:3 

He lays the beams of his chambers on the waters; **he makes the clouds his chariot; he rides on the wings of the wind**;

[See The Cloud Rider](#the-cloud-rider)

## Psalm 138:2

> I bow down toward your holy temple and give thanks to your name for your steadfast love and your faithfulness, for **you have exalted above all things your name and your word**.

God's name and word is exalted above all things. Philippians 2:9 shows that Jesus is then one with the uniquely highest name. Also Jesus is the Word of God. This means Jesus is divine. 

## Psalm 148:13 

> Let them praise the name of Jehovah, for his name alone is exalted; his majesty is above earth and heaven.

Jehovah uniquely has the highest name. Philippians 2:9 shows that Jesus is thenonenwith the uniquely highest name. This means Jesus is divine. 

## Isaiah 19:1 

> An oracle concerning Egypt. Behold, **Jehovah is riding on a swift cloud** and comes to Egypt; and the idols of Egypt will tremble at his presence, and the heart of the Egyptians will melt within them.

[See The Cloud Rider](#the-cloud-rider)

## Isaiah 45:23 

> By myself I have sworn; from my mouth has gone out in righteousness a word that shall not return: ‘**To me every knee shall bow, every tongue shall swear allegiance**.’

Every knee shall bow before Jehovah, and every tongue swear allegiance. In Philippians 2:10-11 these phrases are used to describe Jesus. So Paul is asceibing equality between Jesus and Jehovah God. This indicates the Deity of Christ.

# Daniel 7:13 

> “I saw in the night visions, and behold, **with the clouds of heaven there came one like a son of man**, and he came to the Ancient of Days and was presented before him.

Daniel 7:13 links together the Cloud Rider of the Old Testament with the Cloud Rider of the new testament and shows that Jesus is Jehovah. [See The Cloud Rider](#the-cloud-rider)

## Matthew 1:23 

> “Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Immanuel” (which means, **God with us**).

Jesus wasn't literally named Immanuel. Matthew means that this name applies to Jesus because Jesus is "God with us".

## Matthew 14:25 

> And in the fourth watch of the night he came to them, **walking on the sea**.

The disciples knew that only God has the power to walk on the water. (Job 9:8) This shows that Jesus is God, and why they fell downand worshipped him. (Matthew 14:33)


## Matthew 24:30 
> Then will appear in heaven the sign of the Son of Man, and then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and **they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven** with power and great glory.

[See The Cloud Rider](#the-cloud-rider)

## Mark 6:48 

> And he saw that they were making headway painfully, for the wind was against them. And about the fourth watch of the night he came to them, **walking on the sea**. He meant to pass by them,

The disciples knew that only God has the power to walk on the water. (Job 9:8) This shows that Jesus is God, and why they fell downand worshipped him. (Matthew 14:33)

## Mark 13:26 

> And then they will see the Son of Man **coming in clouds** with great power and glory.

[See The Cloud Rider](#the-cloud-rider)

## Mark 14:62-64 

And Jesus said, “I am, and you will see **the Son of Man** seated at the right hand of Power, and **coming with the clouds of heaven**.” 63 And the high priest tore his garments and said, “What further witnesses do we need? 64 **You have heard his blasphemy**. What is your decision?” And **they all condemned him as deserving death.**

[See The Cloud Rider](#the-cloud-rider) and [the Son of Man](#the-son-of-man).

## Luke 21:27 

> And then they will see the Son of Man **coming in a cloud** with power and great glory.

[See The Cloud Rider](#the-cloud-rider)

## John 1:1 

> In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.

This verse describes the second person if the trinity, known as the Son, Jesus or the Word. It shows that **in the beginning**, he already existed, meaning he is eternal. 

It also shows that he is a separate person from God, he was **with God**, but that at the same time he is God. The original greek grammar is hard to convey here, but greek could in some cases use a noun serving as an adjective, so while the Word is separate from the person called God, the Word is God-ish or Godly, or divine. He possesses all that is required for a person to be God.


## John 1:18 

> No one has ever seen God; the only God, who is at the Father’s side, he has made him known.

Here it emphasizes that God is both invisible and visible. God the Father is invisible, but God the Son was made manifest visibly and made God known perfectly. 

## John 5:18  

> This was why the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him, because not only was he breaking the Sabbath, but he was even calling God his own Father, **making himself equal with God.**

What Jesus said was no mistake but deliberately meant to make people believe he is equal in substance with God, in other words that he is God.

## John 6:19 

> When they had rowed about three or four miles, **they saw Jesus walking on the sea** and coming near the boat, and they were frightened.

The disciples knew that only God has the power to walk on the water. (Job 9:8) This shows that Jesus is God, and why they fell downand worshipped him. (Matthew 14:33)

## John 10:30-33 

> **I and the Father are one.**” 31 The Jews picked up stones again to stone him. 32 Jesus answered them, “I have shown you many good works from the Father; for which of them are you going to stone me?” 33 The Jews answered him, “It is not for a good work that we are going to stone you but for blasphemy, because **you**, being a man, **make yourself God.**”

Jesus is one with God the Father in substance. The Jews are upset, they think Jesus is blaspheming because he is calling himself God.

## John 20:27-29 

> Then he said to Thomas, “Put your finger here, and see my hands; and put out your hand, and place it in my side. Do not disbelieve, but believe.” 28 Thomas answered him, “**My Lord and my God!”** 29 Jesus said to him, “**Have you believed because you have seen me?** Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed.”

What a perfect time for Jesus to correct Thomas if Thomas was wrong in calling him God. But Jesus didn't correct him. Instead he asked "have you believed because you have seen me?" He was relieved that Thomas finally believed that Jesus is God.

## Acts 1:9 

> And when he had said these things, as they were looking on, he was lifted up, and **a cloud took him out of their sight.**

[See The Cloud Rider](#the-cloud-rider)


## Acts 20:28 

> Pay careful attention to yourselves and to all the flock, in which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers, to care for the church of God, which he obtained with his own blood.

It is **the Holy Spirit** that **has made you overseers**. This shows that the Holy Spirit is a person with authority and agency, who makes decisions and carries out plans.

Jesus bought the flock **with his own blood**. Paul says it was the blood of God because he believed that Jesus is God. Thanks to Jesus taking on a human substance, it allowed God to bleed and to obtain us with his blood.

## Romans 14:11 for it is written, “As I live, says the Lord, **every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God**.”

Paul is referring to Isaiah 45:23 which says that every knee will bow before God and every tongue confess him as Lord, and he is applying this to Jesus because Paul believed that Jesus is God. This indicates the deity of Christ

## Philippians 2:5-7 

> Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus, 6 who, though **he was in the form of God**, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, 7 but emptied himself, by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men.

Jesus has the form of God, being fully of the same substance as God the Father. He did not have the same status position as the Father and didn't grasp for that, but he emptied himself of the status that he did have to take on the lowliest status, that of a slave. He did this by taking on the substance of a human along with his divine substance, and to live a life of service.

## Philippians 2:9 

> Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name,

In the Old Testament, Jehovah God has the highest name, the name above wvery name. But in the New Testament it is Jesus. So either Jehovah is not tye highest name anymore, or Jesus is the same as Jehovah. This indicates the deity of Christ.


## Colossians 1:15 

> **He is the image of the invisible God**, the firstborn of all creation.

Jesus is the image of the invisible God. God the Father, the invisible God, still needs a way to interact with humans. So Jesus is the image, or physical, visible manifestation of the invisible God. Fully God, but in his humanity the visible representation that we humans can understand.

## Colossians 2:9  

> For in him **the whole fullness of deity** dwells bodily,

In Jesus, the whole fullness of deity dwells. The fullness of deity means "everything that makes God God". So in Jesus dwells everything that makes God God. Whoever has everything that makes God God, is by definition God. Jesus is fully God. And the fullness if deity dwell bodily because Jesus took on a human substance.

## Titus 2:13 

> waiting for our blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of **our great God and Savior Jesus Christ**

Jesus is called "our Great God and Savior" by the apostle Paul. This is what the firat Christians believed.

> Hebrews 1:3 He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature, and he upholds the universe by the word of his power. After making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high,

Jesus is the **Radiance of the Glory**. Glory is not Glory without it's radiance. The radiance is the Glory itself. God is not God without Jesus, Jesus is God. The earliest church Fathers compared the Father and Som to the Sun and the Sunshine. They would call both "sun". Today we may make a distinction, but in common parlance we still refer to both with the word "sun". "Let's move to the sun" means to go to where the sun shines, not to fly to the heavenly body called the sun. And if not for the sunshine we would not be able to know that the heavenly body existed. And like the aunshine is dependent on the heavenly nody for their exiatence, so the Som is dependent on the Father for his existence, however not in the temporal way as if he ever had a beginning. God has always existed and the Son, the Glory of God has always radiated.

Jesus is **the exact imprint of God's nature**. Whatever God is, Jesus is. In the vein of Colossians 1:15 this explains that Jesus is God manifested in a way humans can understand.  

Jesus **upholds the universe** by his power, showing he is almighty, omnipotent. Every atom is in place thanks to him.

That **he sat down at the right hand** of God the Father shows that the Son is still separate from the Father.

## Hebrews 1:8  

> But **of the Son he says, “Your throne, O God**, is forever and ever, the scepter of uprightness is the scepter of your kingdom.

God the Father calls Jesus "God". 

## Hebrews 1:8, 10-12 

> But **of the Son** he says,... 10 And, “You, Lord, laid the foundation of the earth in the beginning, and the heavens are the work of your hands; 11 they will perish, but you remain; they will all wear out like a garment, 12 like a robe you will roll them up, like a garment they will be changed. But you are the same, and your years will have no end.”

Paul quotes Psalm 102 which talks about Jehovah, and he applies it to Jesus. Jesus is the one who laid the foundation of the earth, because Jesus is Jehovah.


## 2 Peter 1:1 

> Simeon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ, To those who have obtained a faith of equal standing with ours by the righteousness of **our God and Savior Jesus Christ:**

Jesus is called "our Great God and Savior" by the apostle Peter. This is what the firat Christians believed.

## Revelation 1:7 

> Behold, **he is coming with the clouds**, and every eye will see him, even those who pierced him, and all tribes of the earth will wail on account of him. Even so. Amen.

[See The Cloud Rider](#the-cloud-rider)

## Revelation 2:23 

> and I [Jesus] will strike her children dead. And all the churches will know that I am he who searches mind and heart, and I will give to each of you according to your works.

**He who searches minds and hearts** is a reference to the old testament in passages such as Jeremiah 17:10  where it says that Jehovah search the mind,and try the heart and who give to every man according to his ways. This shows that Jesus claims to be tye same as Jehovah in these passages.
















































## Philippians 2:10-11 

> so that at the name of Jesus **every knee should bow**, in heaven and on earth and under the earth, 11 and **every tongue confess** that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.

This scripture shows that Jesus is receiving worship as God. Paul is referring to Old Testament scriptures like Isaiah 45:23 which use these phrases for God. Paul is therefore ascribing equality between Jesus and Jehovah God. This indicates the deity of Christ.


### The one from whose hand nothing can be snatched

> Isaiah 43:13 — Also, I am always the same One; And no one can snatch anything out of my hand. When I act, who can prevent it?”

No one can snatch anything out of the hand of Jehovah.

> John 10:27-30 — My sheep listen to my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. 28 I give them everlasting life, and they will by no means ever be destroyed, and **no one will snatch them out of my hand**. 29 What my Father has given me is something greater than all other things, and **no one can snatch them out of the hand of the Father**. 30 I and the Father are one.”

No one can snatch out of the hand of the Son nor the Father. The Son and the Father are one. Jesus is Jehovah.

## Jesus is called the almighty

<span style="font-size: 16px; -webkit-text-size-adjust: 100%">In Revelation 1, Jesus appears to John.</span>

> <span style="font-size: 16px; -webkit-text-size-adjust: 100%">Revelation 1:17 When I saw him, I fell at his feet as though dead. But he laid his right hand on me, saying, “Fear not, I am the first and the last"</span>

Jesus is called the first and the last. Using the definite article "the" shows there can be only one who is the first and the last. To a first century Jew like John, it was obvious what Jesus referred to. John immediately thought of Isaiah 44:6 where "the first and the last" is also the title of Jehovah, the only God. And now Jesus says that he is the first and the last.

> Isaiah 44:6 Thus says the LORD [Jehovah], the King of Israel and his Redeemer, the LORD of hosts: “**I am the first and I am the last**; besides me there is no god.

Jesus is also the king of Israel and the redeemer, so the connection is clear. But there's more. In the end of Revelation we find this gem:

> Revelation 22:13 I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end.

Here we see that the one who is "the first and the last", Jesus, is also "the beginning and the end", as well as "the Alpha and the Omega". These are all synonymous descriptions of the eternal God. So this scripture tells us Jesus is the Alpha and the Omega. Who is the Alpha and Omega?

> Revelation 1:8 “I am the Alpha and the Omega,” says the Lord God, “who is and who was and who is to come, the Almighty.”

Here we see that the Alpha and Omega, that is Jesus, is also the Lord God, and also the Almighty. Jesus is the First and the Last, the Beginning and the End, the Alpha and the Omega, the Lord God, the King of Israel, the Redeemer and the Almighty.

### Jesus is omnipresent

Omnipresence is the attribute of being everywhere at the same time. Only God can be omnipresent.

> Jeremiah 23:23-24  “Am I a God at hand, declares Jehovah, and not a God far away? 24 Can a man hide himself in secret places so that I cannot see him? declares Jehovah. **Do I not fill heaven and earth?** declares Jehovah.

Jehovah is omnipresent, filling heaven and earth, is near and fat, and in every secret place.

> Matthew 18:20  For where two or three are gathered in my name, **there am I among them**.” Matthew 28:20 teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, **I am with you always**, to the end of the age.”

Jesus is also omnipresent. No matter where his followers are, Jesus is with them and among them. Hence Jesus is God.

## Jesus is all-knowing, omniscient

Omniscience, having the ability to know anything, is an attribute of God. Even while temporarily limited by his human nature on earth, Jesus knew thing only God could know.

> Matthew 9:4 But Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, “Why do you think evil in your hearts?

## Jesus is the creator

> John 1:3 **All things were made through him**, and without him was not any thing made that was made.

> Colossians 1:16 For **by him all things were created**, in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities--**all things were created through him and for him**.

All things were created by Jesus. By him, through him, for him. Nothing created came to be without him. Since Jesus created **all** created things, it goes without saying that Jesus himself can **not** be created. Jesus is therefore eternal. Only God is eternal.

## Jesus receives prayer

### Calling on Jesus

All through the Bible, the phrase "calling on the name of..." is always used for the worship of a god. For example Genesis 4:26; 13:4; 26:25; 2 Kings 5:11; Psalm 116:4,13, 17; Joel 2:32 and Zephaniah 3:9 uses it to mean worshipping or praying to the Lord Jehovah. 1 Kings 18:24 shows it is used for Baal too. So "calling on the name of" someone is an idiom for worshipping or praying to them. Very early on by the time Paul converted, which was within 3 years of Jesus' death, we find these verses in Acts describing what happened. Jesus visits Ananias and tells him to go to Paul. Ananias responds:

> Acts 9:14 And here he has authority from the chief priests to bind **all who call on your name**.”

Paul later recalls how Ananias came to him, and told him:

> Acts 22:16 And now why do you wait? Rise and be baptized and wash away your sins, **calling on his name**.’

The result of Paul's conversion was so amazing and spread through the Christian population. This is their reaction:

> Acts 9:21 And all who heard him were amazed and said, “Is not this the man who made havoc in Jerusalem of **those who called upon this name?** And has he not come here for this purpose, to bring them bound before the chief priests?”

Paul later wrote to the Corinthian congregation:

> 1 Corinthians 1:2 To the church of God that is in Corinth, to those sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints together with **all those who in every place call upon the name of our Lord Jesus Christ**, both their Lord and ours:

The earliest Christians were well known everywhere as "those who call upon the name of Jesus Christ", in other words, those who prayed to and worshipped Jesus Christ.

### Paul prayed to Jesus

Paul talks about his "thorn in the flesh" and says:

> 2 Corinthians 12:8-9 Three times I pleaded with **the Lord** about this, that it should leave me. 9 But **he** said to me, “**My** grace is sufficient for you, for **my power** is made perfect in weakness.” Therefore I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses, so that **the power of Christ** may rest upon me.

Who is the Lord Paul prayed to? The Lord told him "my power is made perfect in weakness". The power of the Lord helped Paul cope. Paul says that this power was the power of Christ. Hence Jesus Christ is the Lord that Paul prayed to three times about his thorn.

### Jesus told us to pray to him

In John 14:14 the greek text contains a "me" that some translations leave out. The greek says "ἐάν τι αἰτήσητέ **με** ἐν τῷ ὀνόματί μου ἐγὼ ποιήσω". But here are a few that conveys the correct meaning:

> John 14:14 (NASB20) “If you ask **Me** anything in My name, I will do it.

> John 14:14 (ESV) If you ask **me** anything in my name, I will do it.

> John 14:14 (NIV) You may ask **me** for anything in my name, and I will do it.

> John 14:14 (CSB) “If you ask **me** anything in my name, I will do it.

> John 14:14 (NLT) Yes, ask **me** for anything in my name, and I will do it!

Yes, it is a direct admonition from Jesus to pray straight to him!

## Jesus forgives sins

The Bible is clear only God can forgive sins:

> Daniel 9:9 To the Lord our God belong mercy and forgiveness, for we have rebelled against him

See also Psalm 130:4 and Isaiah 43:25. Yet this happened:

> Mark 2:5-12 And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, “Son, your sins are forgiven.” 6 Now some of the scribes were sitting there, questioning in their hearts, 7 “Why does this man speak like that? **He is blaspheming! Who can forgive sins but God alone?**” 8 And immediately Jesus, perceiving in his spirit that they thus questioned within themselves, said to them, “Why do you question these things in your hearts? 9 Which is easier, to say to the paralytic, ‘Your sins are forgiven,’ or to say, ‘Rise, take up your bed and walk’? 10 But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins”--he said to the paralytic-- 11 “I say to you, rise, pick up your bed, and go home.” 12 And he rose and immediately picked up his bed and went out before them all, so that they were all amazed and glorified God, saying, “We never saw anything like this!”

When the scribes get upset and accuse Jesus of blasphemy, you should pay attention, because Jesus is doing something only God can do. In this case forgive sins. This shows the deity of Jesus.

## Jesus has the glory of God

Isaiah says Jehovah does not give his glory to anyone else!

> Isaiah 42:8 I am Jehovah; that is my name; my glory I give to no other, nor my praise to carved idols.

> Isaiah 48:11 For my own sake, for my own sake, I do it, for how should my name be profaned? My glory I will not give to another.

However Jesus completely shares the glory of his Father:

> John 5:23 that all may **honor the Son, just as they honor the Father**. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him.

> Matthew 16:27 For the Son of Man is going to come with his angels **in the glory of his Father**, and then he will repay each person according to what he has done.

> 2 Peter 1:17 For when **he received honor and glory from God the Father**, and the voice was borne to him by the Majestic Glory, “This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased,”

God gives his glory to no one, but Jesus has the glory of God because Jesus is God.

# The Cloud Rider

In the Old Testament, one of the atyributes of Jehovah God is that he comes with the clouds. This was an attribute of deity in rhe ancient near east. tThe pagan nations around Israel ascribed this to Baal, but the biblical writers polemically insisted that it is Jehovah who comes with the clouds. So this idea was deeply embedded in the jewish psyche. And when Daniel 7:13 says that there will be a "[Son of Man](#the-son-of-man)" coming on the clouds, they realized that somehow Jehovah would be coming in human form as a real human. When Jesus later told the Sanhedrin that he would "come with the clouds" they accused him of blasphemy, because saying such a thing in their ears meant saying that tou are Jehovah.


# The Son of Man

# The one to whom every knee will bow

# The one with the highest name
