This article aims to go into excruciating detail about the logistics of the crucifixion of Jesus, including etymology, shapes, methods and what the Bible reveals.

## What is a cross?

In this article I will use the words “cross”, “crucifixion” and “crucify” because these are the most commonly used to describe the method of Jesus’ execution. In this article, the word “cross” does not necessarily mean the typical + shape. Crosses can come in any shape. A cross is only the name of a type of gallows whereupon a criminal is nailed or otherwise affixed, no matter the shape of the implement. The idea that “cross” means a certain shape is a modern idea. Wiktionary notes:  “[The sense of "two intersecting lines drawn or cut on a surface; two lines intersecting at right angles" without regard to religious signification developed from the late 14th century.](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/cross#Etymology)”  Crosses come in many different shapes, the most common being the +, T, X and the simple upright pole. More on this below. Crucifixion/crucify means the affixing of a person upon a cross. We will cover the various ways that this was likely done.

## What shapes crosses come in?

Crosses can technically have any shape. Roman executioners were not picky, but could and did use whatever was handy. Records show that sometimes they would just nail someone to a tree or even a ship mast. But the most common shapes used can was called<span style="font-size: 16px; -webkit-text-size-adjust: 100%;"> the _crux immissa, crux commissa, crux decussata_ <span style="-webkit-text-size-adjust: 100%;">and</span> _crux simplex._</span> _Crux simplex_<span style="font-size: 16px; -webkit-text-size-adjust: 100%;">(I-shaped) is just a simple stake on which the victim could be impaled or nailed. Being impaled means that the pointed end of the crux simplex is driven through the victim’s body. (([John Granger Cook - Crucifixion in the Mediterranean world.](https://thyreon.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/Crucifixion-in-the-Mediterranean-world.pdf)))</span> <span style="font-size: 16px; -webkit-text-size-adjust: 100%;">The other types of crosses are composite constructions consisting of more than one piece of wood (</span>_crux compacta). _<span style="font-size: 16px; -webkit-text-size-adjust: 100%;">These include the </span>_crux decussata_ <span style="font-size: 16px; -webkit-text-size-adjust: 100%;">(X-shaped), the</span>_crux commissa_ <span style="font-size: 16px; -webkit-text-size-adjust: 100%;">(T-shaped)</span><span style="font-size: 16px; -webkit-text-size-adjust: 100%;">and</span> _crux immissa_ <span style="font-size: 16px; -webkit-text-size-adjust: 100%;">(+-shaped).</span> Of these the +-shaped and T-shaped are by far the most common.

## Early depictions

The earliest known graphical depiction of the crucifixion of Jesus is the [Alexamenos grafitto.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alexamenos_graffito) This graffito was carved into a plaster wall in Rome. The picture depicts a man (Alexamenos) lifting his hand in worship before a figure of a man with a donkey head. The figure is crucified on a crux immissa (+-shaped cross). The text scrawled around the image reads Αλεξαμενος ϲεβετε θεον, which approximately translates to "Alexamenos worships God". This is clearly meant as an insult toward a christian named Alexamenos, because Romans thought that worshiping a crucified criminal as his God was a shocking and disgusting concept. Although this picture is insulting to Jesus and Christians, it is an early evidence indicating the high probability that Jesus was crucified on such a cross.

## What can we learn from the Bible?

The Bible does not explicitly describe what shape the cross had. The words it use to describe the cross are _stauros _(σταυρός) and _xylon_ (ξύλον). Neither of these describe any particular shape. Xylon just means tree, or a piece of wood, so that shows us what material the cross was likely made from. Stauros in it’s simplest meaning means a stake or pole, however it would be an [etymological fallacy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Etymological_fallacy) to say that the original meaning of a word always is the only and definite meaning of it. However the Bible does give us a clue as to the shape of the cross, in John 20:25:

> So the other disciples told him, “We have seen the Lord.” But he said to them, “Unless I see in his hands the mark of the **nails**, and place my finger into the mark of the **nails**, and place my hand into his side, I will never believe.”

Notice that when Thomas wanted to see the mark of the nails, he used the plural nails, not nail. This means that the Romans used at least two nails to affix Jesus’ arms to the cross. On an I-shaped cross, the arms of the victim would be put one over the other and one single nails would be driven through both wrists. It would be unnecessary to use more than one nail. So since at least two nails were used in Jesus’ arms, this tells us that the cross that Jesus was nailed to was one where his arms would be separated and extended away from his body, such as the X, T or + shaped crosses.

### Extrabiblical scriptures.

In the [Epistle of Barnabas](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Epistle_of_Barnabas) attributed to [Barnabas](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barnabas "Barnabas"), the companion of [Paul the Apostle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paul_the_Apostle "Paul the Apostle"), according to [Clement of Alexandria](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clement_of_Alexandria "Clement of Alexandria") (c. 150 – c. 215) and [Origen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Origen "Origen") (c. 184 – c. 253), Barnabas describes the cross this way:

> _“For [the Scripture] says, <q>And Abraham circumcised ten, and eight, and three hundred men of his household.</q> What, then, was the knowledge given to him in this? Learn the eighteen first, and then the three hundred. The ten and the eight are thus denoted — Ten by <span class="greek">Ι</span>, and Eight by <span class="greek">Η</span> . You have [the initials of the, name of] Jesus. And because **the cross was to express the grace [of our redemption] by the letter <span class="greek">Τ</span>**, he says also, <q>Three Hundred.”</q>_

Barnabas is discussing the significance of Abraham circumcising 318 men, and in gematria 300 is represented by the greek letter T. Barnabas thinks that this significant, because in his mind, the cross had the shape of the letter T. This would indicate that Barnabas believed Jesus was crucified on a crux commissa, or T-shaped cross.

## Stauros

[John Pearson, Bishop of Chester](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Pearson_(bishop) "John Pearson (bishop)") (c. 1660) wrote in his commentary on the [Apostles' Creed](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apostles%27_Creed "Apostles' Creed") that the Greek word _stauros_ originally signified "a straight standing Stake, Pale, or Palisador", but that, "when other transverse or prominent parts were added in a perfect Cross, it retained still the Original Name", and he declared: "The Form then of the Cross on which our Saviour suffered was not a simple, but a compounded, Figure, according to the Custom of the _Romans_, by whose Procurator he was condemned to die. In which there was not only a straight and erected piece of Wood fixed in the Earth, but also a transverse Beam fastened unto that towards the top thereof".
