---
title: "Was the plague caused by David's census unreasonable?"
tags: [Criticism]
---
In Chronicles 21:1 and 2 Samuel 24:1 King David decides to take a census of the people of Israel and Judah. God is displeased with this and responds by sending his prophet Gad to David. Gad informs David that God is displeased and David is given three options as to what punishment God should give him: 1) Seven years of famine. 2) Three months of being beset by enemies. 3) 3 days of plague. David chooses the plague, and as a result 70.000 people die.

What is going on here? Why was God displeased with David taking a census? Was this punishment reasonable?

The reason God was displeased for David taking the census can be found in Exodus 30:12:

> Exodus 30:12  “When you take the census of the people of Israel, then each shall give a ransom for his life to the LORD when you number them, **that there be no plague among them** when you number them.

There were rules for taking censuses. In the thinking of these ancient cultures, a man only had the right to count or number what belonged to him.   Since the people didn't belong to the king but to God, the king was not allowed to count them. If a king wanted to take a census, he therefore had to collect ransom money from the people, otherwise God would send a plague.

This is what happened. David unlawfully counted the people he didnt own and he didnt give god a ransom. Hence, according to the law, a plague was the expected punishment from God.

## But David gets three options? Why?

If David would choose the first option, 7 years of famine, he and other rich people would probably survive fairly well. Likewise if he would have chosen to be attacked by enemies for 3 months, he could just send out his army to defend him. However a plague does not discriminate between rich or poor. David chose to ”fall into the hand of the Lord, for His mercies are great”. David actually chose the least selfish option here, showing qualities of a good shepherd and leader. And he hoped for the mercy of God. But in the end, 70.000 people died in the plague. This emphasizes the tremendous responsibility a leader of the people had for his subjects. It also emphasizes how serious sin is and how it can affect others.

## Was it unfair that these people died because of what David did?

it would be unfair if these people were innocent. However no one is innocent. Everyone is guilty and sinful. The reason why God does not allow judgment to come upon us right now is because of his mercy. Mercy holds back judgment in the hope of repentance. David’s sin caused the whole nation to lose God’s mercy for 3 days with disastrous consequences. You may enjoy God’s mercy right now, but don’t rely on it. The way to be saved from judgment is to enter into a covenant relationship with God by Jesus. You do this by simply acknowledging your sin to him, promise to try to do better (repent) and accepting Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior.
