---
title: We are not the same
tags: [Islam, Christianity]
---

A common claim by Muslims is that Islam worships the same god as Christians, or that Islam is an Abrahamic religion, or similar attempts to leech authenticity or to try to establish common ground. But we are not the same.

Here is a list of areas in which Christianity and Islam are different.

# About God

| Yahweh      | Allah |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| Is triune, three persons in one being | Is simple and unitarian. |
| Is a Father |  Is Father to no one |
| Has an only begotten Son who is God in essence | Has no "partners" |
| Has a Parent-Child relationship with believers | Has a master-slave relationship with believers |
| Loves us before we know him | Only loves if we do things for him | 

| Loves the whole world | Hates those who don't accept Islam (q3:32;30:45)|




| Bible | Quran |
| ----- | ----- |
| God created the heavens and the earth. | Allah created the earth and then the heavens (2:29) |
| There are 3 heavens | There are 7 heavens (2:29) |
| Hellfire is eternal | Hellfire is fueled by people and stones (2:24) |
| Hell was made for the Satan and demons | Hell was made specifically for humans |

| Like be your enemies and pray for those persecuting you | Fight those who do not believe in Allah.seize them and slay them wherever ye find them  (q9:29;4:89) |
| Love your enemy as yourself | I have been commanded to fight against people so long as they do not declare that there is no god but Allah (Muslim 1:33) |


| Adam named the animals | Allah told Adam what the animals were named (2:31) |

| God forgives sin on the basis that Jesus took the just punishment. God is just. | Allah forgives sins without a basis, making him an unjust judge | 


Jesus treated women as valuable equal humans.
Muhammad said women are equal to dogs and donkeys, and that they are intellectually deficient.

Jesus died forgiving his enemies.
Muhammad died cursing all Jews and Christians.

Jesus warned that if anyone hurts a child it would be better for him to have a millstone hung around his neck and drowned in the ocean.
Muhammad raped a nine year old girl, harassed a boy by spreading slanderous rumours about him, and cursed an orphan girl to die young.

Jesus expelled demons.
Muhammad said demons became Muslims. (Surah 72)

Jesus never married or did anything adulterous.
Muhammad had 11 wives, committed adultery with slave girls, married a child, and stole his adopted son's wife. 

The apostles went throughout the world to spread the word of Jesus, lived in poverty, were persecuted and killed for their faith.
The Sahaba (followers of Muhammad) spread Islam by force and military conquest, gained wealth, power, and women, and even killed each other.

Jesus healed the sick.
Muhammad massacred people.

Jesus taught us to love our enemies. 
Muhammad taught us to kill our enemies.

Jesus saved an adulterous woman from being stoned to death.
Muhammad stoned an adulterous woman to death.




 
Heaven in the Bible is to be in the presence of God, enjoying his glory, not having genitals, not marrying or having sex.
Heaven in the Quran is to not be in the presence of Allah, but to have eternal erections and being married to and having sex with eternal virgins with big breasts.


Muhammad said Allah hates those who are not Muslim (30:45;332)
Jesus said God loves the whole world (John 3:16)

Muhammad: Fight everyone in the way of Allah Ibn Ishaq/Hisham 992
Jesus: Love your neighbor as yourself

Muhammad: fight until they testify there is no god but Allah
Jesus: I have come to seek and save those who are lost Luke 19:10

Muhammad stoned women for adultery
Jesus saved a woman from being stoned for adultery

Muhammad permitted stealing from unbelievers Bukhari 44:668
Jesus said you shall not steal

Muslims are permitted to lie Bukhari 49:857
Jesus said you shall not lie 

Muhammad owned slaves
Jesus came to release the captives

Muhammed beheaded 800 people at the battle of the trench
Jesus never beheaded anyone.

M ordered killing those insulting him  q 33:57,61
Jesus preached forgiveness and love

M Jihad elevates one's position "raised one hundred degrees in paradise"
J Blessed are the peacemaker 