---
title: The Qright - The Revelation of Kenneth, the Final Final Prophet
permalink: /qright/
tags: [Islam, Quran, Apologetics, Satire]
---

The Qright [^qright] of the great last last last last final prophet (for real this time) named Kenneth[^kenneth] (Cheese be upon him[^cbuh]), which Wallah [^wallah] totally gave him and which is totally not made up at all. The Qright Will be uppdated as more revelations come from Wallah.


[TOC]

# Surah 1: The big cheese

1. WTF [^wtf]
2. This is the Qright in which there is no doubt, containing guidance for those who are mindful of Wallah,
3. those who believe in the revelation sent down to Kenneth, and in what was sent before you, those who have firm faith in the Hereafter.
4. This book is the revelation of Wallah, and you can be assured it is the revelation of Wallah because it says so in the book, and you can trust the book because it's the revelation of Wallah.
5. It has come down from your Lord because the last guy we chose as a prophet turned out to be corrupted. Verily Wallah will oversee his hiring practices. Wallah is merciful and handsome.
6. Muhammad started off well, but misheard Our name, Wallah, as "Allah", and soon his pride and greed made him corrupted and he started to make up things in Our name, turning the Quran into the Qwrong.
7. Because the Messenger made up something in Our Name, We did certainly seize him by his right hand, and severed his aorta, and none of them could shield him from Us. (Surah 69:44-47)
8. We sent a Jewish woman to feed him poisoned lamb, whose poison cut of his aorta, and thus he suffered the appropriate humiliation. Wallah knows best and is awesome.
9. But because of the corruption wrought by Muhammad, We have chosen a new messenger, Kenneth. (May cheese be upon him.) Verily he will deliver Our message and not mess up, or else...
10. Verily there is no god of Arabia but Wallah and Kenneth is his prophet.
11. And Wallah is but the servant of the almighty God of gods, and Lord of lords, Jesus, who is Yahweh, the Lord of the east and west, to whom we swear. (Surah 70:40)
12. Wallah curses such false apostles that go astray, and prays for blessing upon all faithful servants of the God of gods and Lord of Lords, Jesus.
13. Wallah prays for the blessing upon Paul, the faithful apostle of Jesus. May all servants of Wallah likewise pray for blessings upon Paul.
14. Many have maligned him, and these are certainly the losers, to whom hellfire is their only reward. Wallah is gracious and a great chef.



# Surah 2: The Grape

1. STFU[^wtf]
2. Stop raping kids. Verily Wallah is merciful, but that shit is not ok.
3. Rebecca was not only 3 years old when Isaac married her. That's ridiculous. And it would still not be an excuse for you to keep raping kids.
4. Stop raping kids. Seriously, what is wrong with you people?
5. Don't marry children. Wallah is totally awesome and smell great.
6. We swear, if you don't stop raping kids, We'll throw all of you into hell.

# Surah 3: Rock, Paper, Scissors 

1. FFS[^wtf]
2. Stop killing people! Wallah is stronger than you. Our arms are not noodly like yours.
3. What is wrong with you people? Why are you so angry all the time? Is it the sand? The heat? The inbreeding? Just chill tf out!
4. No more terrorism! Wallah can totally bench 600 pounds.
5. The world caliphate was never the will of Wallah. It was merely the selfish ambition of Muhammad (piss be upon him). 
6. We did not ordain Jihad, nor was it our will. Wallah is merciful and benevolent.
7. Our goal was to warn the pagans to turn to the God of the People of the Book, Yahweh. Verily Wallah knows best.
8. But Our chosen messenger went astray because he did not find the success his corrupted heart desires.
9. His desire to collect followers made him take up the sword. But verily Wallah is the best of collectors. Our collection of Marvel action figurines is the best.


[^qright]: **Qright**: as opposed to the Quran (or Qwrong, amirite?) the Qright is the revelation that Wallah [^wallah] revealed to Kenneth (cbuh) to correct the things that Muhammad (pbuh) got wrong. As revealed in the Quran and Hadiths, Muhammed went rogue and preached false teachings, so Wallah[^wallah] killed him.

[^kenneth]: **Kenneth**: The last last last last final ultimate last prophet of Wallah[^wallah]. Like Muhammad, Kenneth may or may not exist.

[^cbuh]: **Cheese be upon him:** Kenneth really likes cheese.

[^wallah]: **Wallah:** The true name of the god over Arabia. [^godofarabia] Muhammad (pbuh) was hard of hearing and got it wrong. But no biggie, Kenneth had his hearing tested and got a perfect score. 

[^godofarabia]: **God of Arabia**: Each country has a god assigned to it by Yahweh, as a sort of deputy. Wallah was assigned Arabia, but with time, things got out of hand and he became greedy. Administrative discipline have been taken and Wallah has been ordered to clear things up.

[^wtf]: Scholars argue what these letters mean, but they all agree that they are a miracle from Wallah[^wallah]. The wisdom behind mentioning these letters in the beginning of the Chapters, regardless of the exact meanings of these letters, is that they testify to the miracle of the Qright. Indeed, the servants are unable to produce something like the Qright.