---
layout: surah
title: Surah 2 — Al-Baqara
search: true
permalink: /quran/2/
---

Al-Baqara, or “The Cow” is the second Surah of the Quran. It’s the longest surah with 286 verses. It’s hard to pinpoint exactly what it’s about because the author jumps back and forth between topics at least 68 times. This surah reads like the ramblings of a schizophrenic patient in a mental institute. So many things are out of context that it is pretty much impossible to keep up with what is going on.

[TOC]

## Introductory nonsense

> <span id="v1">1</span> Alif. Lam. Mim.

We start off strong with some cryptic letters that no one knows what they means. So much for the the Quran being “clear and easy to understand.”

((2:1, Clear Quran dilemma, Quran - unclear, Cryptic letters))

## Self glazing

> <span id="v2">2</span> This is the Scripture whereof there is no doubt, a guidance to those who ward off (evil).

The author of this does not know how to convince people other than by insisting. It seems that quite often in the Islamic community they think that “trust me bro” is an authoritative source reference, and that if they repeat it often enough it will become true. But coming from a Christian background where our religion is based on historical and archaeological evidence, claims to be based on the Logos that structured the very reality we live in, and encourages us to think, criticize, and debate, just saying "**This is the Scripture whereof there is no doubt**" just isn't very convincing.

((2:2, Trust me bro, Ipse dixit, Bare assertion))

> <span id="v3">3</span> Who believe in the Unseen, and establish worship, and spend of that We have bestowed upon them;


Muslims **establish worship** and donate. These are religious works. Islam is a works based religion. That means you try to earn points with Allah by doing good deeds. But exactly how many points are sufficient to earn heaven? And what is your current score? Is it ever enough? Therefore a Muslim can do good works all their lives and never be assured of salvation.

This also means that - if saved - the individual Muslim gets the glory for their salvation.

Also it means that their god Allah can be bribed. If Allah is a judge, he is a corrupt judge that can be bribed by good deeds. 

In Christianity, we are assured of salvation, not because of what we do but because of what Jesus did. It relieves us of the uncertainty. God is a just judge because everyone is judged fairly as sinners. But God is also so loving that he was willing to take the punishment for those who accept it. Thus God gets all the glory.

((2:3, Salvation, Judgment, Judge, Works, Works-righteousness))

> <span id="v4">4</span> And who believe in that which is revealed to you (Muhammad) and that which was revealed before you, and are certain of the Hereafter.

Muslims should believe in **that which was revealed before** Muhammad, which refers to the Bible and it’s prophets. The Quran tells Muslims to believe the Bible, but the Muslims tells me that the Bible has been corrupted. Whom should I trust? Allah, or the Muslims who say Allah is wrong?

((2:4, Islamic dilemma, Quran affirms Bible))

> <span id="v5">5</span> These depend on guidance from their Lord. These are the successful.

The Quran often use terms like successful and losers like it was written by a 14 year old. But it emphasises the works righteousness aspect. You are counted as successful or not based on what you do.

((2:5, Success, Works-righteousness))

> <span id="v6">6</span> As for the Disbelievers, Whether you warn them or you warn them not it is all one for them; they believe not.
> <span id="v7">7</span> Allah has sealed their hearing and their hearts, and on their eyes there is a covering. Theirs will be an awful doom.

Discussing unbelievers, it says that **Allah has sealed their hearing and their hearts, and on their eyes there is a covering**, in other words they are predestined to hell, and there is no one to blame but Allah. This is entrapment,  manipulating people to fail. It paints Allah as an evil, twisted trixter who plays games with people. 

((2:7, Allah hateful, Allah predestines sin, Allah deceives, Entrapment, Predestination))

## False believers

> <span id="v8">8</span> And of mankind are some who say: We believe in Allah and the Last Day, when they believe not.
> <span id="v9">9</span> They think to beguile Allah and those who believe, and they beguile none save themselves; but they perceive not.

((2:8, Hypocrites, False believers, Deception))

> <span id="v10">10</span> In their hearts is a disease, and Allah increases their disease. A painful doom is theirs because they lie.

This verse is sick. Allah is not helping the people who are spiritually sick, but he actually **increases their disease** so that they will end up worse. This is a sick and twisted loveless unlovable deity.

((2:10, Allah hateful, Entrapment))

> <span id="v11">11</span> And when it is said to them: Make not mischief in the earth, they say: We are peacemakers only.
> <span id="v12">12</span> Are not they indeed the mischief-makers ? But they perceive not.

((2:11, Hypocrites, False believers, Deception, Mischief makers, Peacemakers))

> <span id="v13">13</span> And when it is said to them: believe as the people believe, they say: shall we believe as the foolish believe ? are not they indeed the foolish ? But they know not.

((2:13, Hypocrites, False believers, Deception, Fools))

> <span id="v14">14</span> And when they fall in with those who believe, they say: We believe; but when they go apart to their devils they declare: See! we are with you; verily we did but mock.

((2:14, Hypocrites, False believers, Deception))

> <span id="v15">15</span> Allah (Himself) does mock them, leaving them to wander blindly on in their disobedience.

Rather than setting the erring ones on the straight path, Allah bullies them and makes their situation worse. This is not the God of the Bible.

Ezekiel 18:23 “Do I have any pleasure at all that the wicked should die?” says the Lord GOD, “and not that he should turn from his ways and live?”

Ezekiel 33:11“Say to them: ‘As I live,’ says the Lord GOD, ‘I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked, but that the wicked turn from his way and live.’”

((2:15, Allah bullies, Allah mocks, Allah hateful, Quran contradicts Bible))

> <span id="v16">16</span> These are they who purchase error at the price of guidance, so their commerce does not prosper, neither are they guided.

((2:16, False believers))

> <span id="v17">17</span> Their likeness is as the likeness of one who kindles fire, and when it sheds its light around him Allah takes away their light and leaves them in darkness, where they cannot see,
> <span id="v18">18</span> Deaf, dumb and blind; and they return not.

Rather than helping them, Allah is deliberately taking away their light and leaving them in darkness, terrifying them, like a cat plays with it’s prey.

((2:17, Allah hateful, Allah bullies, Entrapment, Fire, False believers))


> <span id="v19">19</span> Or like a rainstorm from the sky, wherein is darkness, thunder and the flash of lightning. They thrust their fingers in their ears by reason of the thunder-claps, for fear of death, Allah encompasses the disbelievers (in His guidance, His omniscience and His omnipotence).
> <span id="v20">20</span> The lightning almost snatches away their sight from them. As often as it flashes forth for them they walk therein, and when it darkenes against them they stand still. If Allah willed, He could destroy their hearing and their sight. See! Allah is able to do all things.

**Allah is able to do all things** except being helpful, useful, or loving. He is just terrorising these poor people! What an awful deity! The true God would never be so cruel!

((2:19, Allah is cruel, Allah is evil, Allah bullies, Thunder, Lightning, False believers))

## Encouraging worship

> <span id="v21">21</span> O mankind! worship your Lord, Who has created you and those before you, so that you may ward off (evil).
> <span id="v22">22</span> Who has appointed the earth a resting-place for you, and the sky a canopy; and causes water to pour down from the sky, thereby producing fruits as food for you. And do not set up rivals to Allah when you know (better).

After showing how horrible Allah is, the Quran goes on to encourage people to praise him. What a psycho narcissist!

((2:21, Praising Allah, Rain, Fruit, Earth, Rival gods))

## Literary excellence as a test for authenticity.

> <span id="v23">23</span> And if you are in doubt concerning that which We reveal to Our slave (Muhammad), then produce a surah of the like thereof, and call your witness beside Allah if you are truthful.

This famous claim that the Quran is the word of Allah because of its supposed literary excellence is a really weird condition for divine inspiration. Literary beauty has absolutely nothing to do with divine inspiration. If it did, any half decent poet is more inspired than Allah and Muhammad.

But to demonstrate let’s provide a Surah better than the garbage we’ve seen so far. 

> The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want. He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters. He restores my soul. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name’s sake. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me; your rod and your staff, they comfort me. You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies; you anoint my head with oil; my cup overflows. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever.

I put it to you that any chapter in the Bible or even any decent poetry book is better than any Surah of the Quran.

((2:23, Literary excellence, Quran, Surah, Inspiration))

> <span id="v24">24</span> And if you do it not - and you can never do it - then guard yourselves against the Fire prepared for disbelievers, whose fuel is of men and stones.

Apparently hell is fueled by people? And stones?

In the Bible hellfire does not need fuel. Also in the Bible hell is not prepared for humans but for the satan and the demons. Humans were not supposed to go to hell but it’s just an unfortunate side effect of rejecting God.

But in Islam hell is made specifically to torture humans, and as we learned, Allah is deliberately causing people to go to hell.

((2:24, Hell, Fire))

## Paradise

> <span id="v25">25</span> And give glad tidings (O Muhammad) to those who believe and do good works; that theirs are Gardens underneath which rivers flow; as often as they are regaled with food of the fruit thereof, they say: this is what was given us aforetime; and it is given to them in resemblance. There for them are pure companions; there for ever they abide.

Notice that the fruits you get in paradise all taste the same. To be fair, eating the same thing for eternity sounds like a hell in itself.

And of course sex. Can’t forget that sex is a central part of Islam. Even in the afterlife you need spouses. While in the Bible it is said that there will be no marriage or sex in heaven, in Islam, sex in paradise is a requirement.

The Islamic concept of paradise is basically what would appeal to a gullible desert dwelling 7th century man: Gardens, water, food, sex. It is extremely carnal, meant to appeal to gullible carnal people.

This of course contradicts the biblical view of paradise/heaven, where Jesus said "they neither marry, nor are given in marriage, but are as the angels of God in heaven". (Matthew 22:30)

((2:25, Paradise, Garden, Fruit, River, Sex, Quran contradicts Bible))

## Allah misleads

> <span id="v26">26</span> See! Allah disdains not to coin the similitude even of a gnat. Those who believe know that it is the truth from their Lord; but those who disbelieve say: What does Allah wish (to teach) by such a similitude ? He misleads many thereby, and He guides many thereby; and He misleads thereby only miscreants;

It’s interesting that Allah is said to be using parables, and whether someone understands them or not depends on whether they are humble or not. This is one of the attributes of Jesus, who used parables because the humble understands them but the proud does not. (Matt. 13:10-17; Mark 4:11,12; Luke 8:9, 10) One of many ayah that inadvertently admit that Jesus is Allah.

However it says that Allah misguides people, and Allah being a liar and deceiver is a recurring theme.

((2:26, Allah uses parables, Parables, Allah misleads, Allah deceives, Jesus is Allah))

> <span id="v27">27</span> Those who break the covenant of Allah after ratifying it, and sever that which Allah ordered to be joined, and (who) make mischief in the earth: **Those are they who are the losers.**

Allah has the vocabulary of a fourteen year old boy.

((2:27, Allah immature))

## Life and death

> <span id="v28">28</span> How disbelieve you in Allah when you were dead and He gave life to you! Then He will give you death, then life again, and then to Him you will return.

So Muslims pre-existed lifeless, then became alive, then dead, then alive again, then go to Allah? What busywork.

((2:28, Life, Death, Resurrection))

## Creation of Heaven and Earth

> <span id="v29">29</span> He it is Who created for you all that is in the earth. Then turned He to the heaven, and fashioned it as seven heavens. And He is knower of all things.

We learn that Allah created the earth first and then the heavens, 7 of them. In the Bible God created the heavens and the earth, and there are 3 heavens. In other verses the Quran says Allah created the heavens first and then the earth.

Verses saying Allah created the heavens before the earth:

[Surah 6:1](/quran/6/#v1), [73](/quran/6/#v73), [79](/quran/6/#v79), [101](/quran/6/#v101); [14:19](/quran/14/#v19); [15:85](/quran/15/#v85); [16:3](/quran/16/#v3); [17:99](/quran/17/#v99); [21:16](/quran/21/#v16), [56](/quran/21/#v56); [25:59](/quran/25/#v59); [29:44](/quran/29/#v44),[61](/quran/29/#v61); [31:27](/quran/31/#v27); [36:81](/quran/36/#v81); [38:27](/quran/38/#v27); [43:9](/quran/43/#v9); [44:38](/quran/44/#v38); [45:22](/quran/45/#v22); [50:38](/quran/50/#v38); [52:36](/quran/52/#v36); [57:4](/quran/57/#v4); [64:3](/quran/64/#v3)

Verses saying Allah created the earth before the heavens:

[Surah 2:29](/quran/2/#v29); [20:4](/quran/20/#v4); [41:9-12](/quran/41/#v9)

This is of course an apparent contradiction of both the Quran itself and of the Bible.

((2:29, Contradictions, Quran contradicts Bible, Heaven, Earth))

## Adam and Satan shenanigans

> <span id="v30">30</span> And when your Lord said to the angels: See! I am about to place a viceroy in the earth, they said: Wilt you place therein one who will do harm therein and will shed blood, while we, we hymn your praise and sanctify you ? He said: Surely I know that which you know not.

Verses 30-34 is copied from a fable from the apocryphal book of the life of Adam and Eve (13:2), where Adam is assigned as the ruler of the angels and God makes the angels bow down to him, but Satan (Iblis) refuses. It was written between around 100 BC-100 AD and it’s an example of one of many false stories that Muhammad have just heard, thought was real, and included in the Quran toppas it off as "revelation" from Allah.

((2:30, Plagiarism, Fables, Apocryphal stories, False revelation, Adam, Eve, Satan, Iblis))

> <span id="v31">31</span> And **He taught Adam all the names**, then showed them to the angels, saying: Inform Me of the names of these, if you are truthful.
> <span id="v32">32</span> They said: Be glorified! We have no knowledge saving that which You hast taught us. See! Thou, only Thou, are the Knower, the Wise.
> <span id="v33">33</span> He said: O Adam! Inform them of their names, and when he had informed them of their names, He said: Did I not tell you that I know the secret of the heavens and the earth ? And I know that which you disclose and which you hide.

In verse 31 it says that Allah **taught Adam all the names**. Assuming this means the names of the animals, this disagrees with the Bible. Adam was the one who got to give names to the animals. God in the Bible allows his creatures to exercise creativity, but Allah from the Quran is not as magnanimous. 

((2:31, Adam, Quran contradicts Bible))

> <span id="v34">34</span> And when We said to the angels: Prostrate yourselves before Adam, they fell prostrate, all save Iblis. He demurred through pride, and so became a disbeliever.

As mentioned at verse 30, this story is plagarized from a first century apocryphal fable. 

((2:34, Plagiarism, Fables, Apocryphal stories, False revelation, Adam, Eve, Satan, Iblis))

> <span id="v35">35</span> And We said: O Adam! Dwell you and your wife in the Garden, and eat you freely (of the fruits) thereof where you will; but come not nigh this tree lest you become wrong-doers.

Unless you have the biblical context, this verse makes no sense. Islam needs Christianity/Judaism, but Christianity:Judaism does not need Islam.

((2:35, Adam, Eve, Eden, Garden, Quran requires Bible, Quran affirms Bible))

> <span id="v36">36</span> But Satan caused them to deflect therefrom and expelled them from the (happy) state in which they were; and We said: Fall down, one of you a foe to the other! There shall be for you on earth a habitation and provision for a time.

Here is says that Satan expelled them from the Garden, but it was God who expelled them. This contradicts the Bible. 

((2:36, Quran contradicts Bible, Satan))

> <span id="v37">37</span> Then Adam received from his Lord words (of revelation), and He relented toward him. See! He is the relenting, the Merciful.
> <span id="v38">38</span> We said: ￼Go down, all of you, from hence; but verily there comes to you from Me a guidance; and whoso follows My guidance, there shall no fear come upon them neither shall they grieve.

In verse 36 is says **fall down** and here it says **go down…from hence**￼, indicating that the Garden of Eden was where God is, in heaven. Thisthis the majority view among Islamic scholars. The majority view among Christian scholars is that Eden was a place on earth, since the Bible distinctly describes it in earthly terms. 

This has deep theological ramifications. In Islam, where Eden is traditionally understood as heavenly, humanity begins in a higher realm and falls downward to earth, so sin is seen as a forgivable act rather than a corruption of nature, and salvation is fundamentally a return to paradise through repentance and obedience to divine guidance. In Christianity, where Eden is understood as earthly, humanity falls within creation, rupturing its relationship with God and damaging human nature itself, so salvation is not a return but a transformation - God entering creation to heal it, culminating not in escape from earth but in a renewed heavens and earth.

God walking in the garden as Genesis 3:8 says, in the Christian view means that God enters creation, which makes a lot of sense of the incarnation. In Islam, Allah is forever divorced from creation, which shows he doesn't really care about humanity.

((2:38, Fundamental differences, Eden, Adam, Eve, Fall, Allah aloof))


> <span id="v39">39</span> But they who disbelieve, and deny Our revelations, such are rightful Peoples of the Fire. They will abide therein.

In Islamic theology, Allah is primarily portrayed as an absolute sovereign whose honor and authority are paramount, so disobedience is treated chiefly as rebellion against divine command and is often followed by firm, declarative judgment, with mercy granted at God’s discretion but without God sharing in human suffering.

In biblical theology, by contrast, God relates to humanity covenantally and relationally: He is repeatedly described as slow to anger, pleading with people to repent, delaying judgment, and even bearing the cost of human rebellion Himself, culminating in the self-giving love of the incarnation and the cross. The difference, then, is not simply emotional tone but theological structure: Islam emphasizes submission to transcendent authority, while Christianity emphasizes redemptive relationship marked by divine patience and self-sacrificial love.

The Quranic God does not suffer for humanity; humanity suffers for defying Him. The biblical God suffers for humanity’s defiance.

((2:39, Allah - tyrant, Hell))

> <span id="v40">40</span> O Children of Israel! Remember My favour wherewith I favoured you, and fulfil your (part of the) covenant, I shall fulfil My (part of the) covenant, and fear Me.

> <span id="v41">41</span> And believe in that which I reveal, confirming that which you possess already (of the Scripture), and be not first to disbelieve therein, and part not with My revelations for a trifling price, and keep your duty to Me.

> <span id="v42">42</span> Confound not truth with falsehood, nor knowingly conceal the truth.

> <span id="v43">43</span> Establish worship, pay the poor-due, and bow your heads with those who bow (in worship).

> <span id="v44">44</span> Enjoin you righteousness upon mankind while you yourselves forget (to practise it) ? And you are readers of the Scripture! Have you then no sense ?

> <span id="v45">45</span> Seek help in patience and prayer; and truly it is hard save for the humble- minded,

> <span id="v46">46</span> Who know that they will have to meet their Lord, and that to Him they are returning.

> <span id="v47">47</span> O Children of Israel! Remember My favour wherewith I favoured you and how I preferred you to (all) creatures.

> <span id="v48">48</span> And guard yourselves against a day when no soul will in aught avail another, nor will intercession be accepted from it, nor will compensation be received from it, nor will they be helped.

> <span id="v49">49</span> And (remember) when We did deliver you from Pharaoh's folk, who were afflicting you with dreadful torment, slaying your sons and sparing your women: that was a tremendous trial from your Lord.

> <span id="v50">50</span> And when We brought you through the sea and rescued you, and drowned the folk of Pharaoh in your sight.

> <span id="v51">51</span> And when We did appoint for Moses forty nights (of solitude), and then you chose the calf, when he had gone from you, and were wrong-doers.

> <span id="v52">52</span> Then, even after that, We pardoned you in order that you might give thanks.

> <span id="v53">53</span> And when We gave to Moses the Scripture and the criterion (of right and wrong), that you might be led aright.

> <span id="v54">54</span> And when Moses said to his people: O my people! Ye have wronged yourselves by your choosing of the calf (for worship) so turn in penitence to your Creator, and kill (the guilty) yourselves. That will be best for you with your Creator and He will relent toward you. See! He is the Relenting, the Merciful.

> <span id="v55">55</span> And when you said: O Moses! We will not believe in you till we see Allah plainly; and even while you gazed the lightning seized you.

> <span id="v56">56</span> Then We revived you after your extinction, that you might give thanks.

> <span id="v57">57</span> And We caused the white cloud to overshadow you and sent down on you the manna and the quails, (saying): Eat of the good things wherewith We have provided you - they wronged Us not, but they did wrong themselves.

> <span id="v58">58</span> And when We said: Go into this township and eat freely of that which is therein, and enter the gate prostrate, and say: "Repentance." We will forgive you your sins and will increase (reward) for the right-doers.

> <span id="v59">59</span> But those who did wrong changed the word which had been told them for another saying, and We sent down upon the evil-doers wrath from heaven for their evil-doing.

> <span id="v60">60</span> And when Moses asked for water for his people, We said: Smite with your staff the rock. And there gushed out therefrom twelve springs (so that) each tribe knew their drinking-place. Eat and drink of that which Allah has provided, and do not act corruptly, making mischief in the earth.

> <span id="v61">61</span> And when you said: O Moses! We are weary of one kind of food; so call upon your Lord for us that He bring forth for us of that which the earth grows - of its herbs and its cucumbers and its corn and its lentils and its onions. He said: Would you exchange that which is higher for that which is lower ? Go down to settled country, thus you shall get that which you demand. And humiliation and wretchedness were stamped upon them and they were visited with wrath from Allah. That was because they disbelieved in Allah's revelations and slew the prophets wrongfully. That was for their disobedience and transgression.

> <span id="v62">62</span> See! Those who believe (in that which is revealed to you, Muhammad), and those who are Jews, and Christians, and Sabaeans - whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day and does right - surely their reward is with their Lord, and there shall no fear come upon them neither shall they grieve.

> <span id="v63">63</span> And (remember, O Children of Israel) when We made a covenant with you and caused the mount to tower above you, (saying): Hold fast that which We have given you, and remember that which is therein, that you may ward off (evil).

> <span id="v64">64</span> Then, even after that, you turned away, and if it had not been for the grace of Allah and His mercy you had been among the losers.

> <span id="v65">65</span> And you know of those of you who broke the Sabbath, how We said to them: Be you apes, despised and hated!

> <span id="v66">66</span> And We made it an example to their own and to succeeding generations, and an admonition to the God-fearing.

> <span id="v67">67</span> And when Moses said to his people: See! Allah commands you that you sacrifice a cow, they said: Dost you make game of us ? He answered: Allah forbid that I should be among the foolish!

> <span id="v68">68</span> They said: Pray for us to your Lord that He make clear to us what (cow) she is. (Moses) answered: See! He said, Verily she is a cow neither with calf nor immature; (she is) between the two conditions; so do that which you are commanded.

> <span id="v69">69</span> They said: Pray for us to your Lord that He make clear to us of what colour she is. (Moses) answered: See! He said: Verily she is a yellow cow. Bright is her colour, gladdening beholders.

> <span id="v70">70</span> They said: Pray for us to your Lord that He make clear to us what (cow) she is. See! cows are much alike to us; and See! if Allah wills, we may be led aright.

> <span id="v71">71</span> (Moses) answered: See! He said: Verily she is a cow unyoked; she ploughs not the soil nor waters the tilth; whole and without mark. They said: Now you bringest the truth. So they sacrificed her, though almost they did not.

> <span id="v72">72</span> And (remember) when you slew a man and disagreed concerning it and Allah brought forth that which you were hiding.

> <span id="v73">73</span> And We said: Smite him with some of it. Thus Allah brings  the dead to life and shows   you His portents so that you may understand.

> <span id="v74">74</span> Then, even after that, your hearts were hardened and became as rocks, or worse than rocks, for hardness. For indeed there are rocks from out which rivers gush, and indeed there are rocks which split asunder so that water floweth from them. And indeed there are rocks which fall down for the fear of Allah. Allah is not unaware of what you do.

> <span id="v75">75</span> Have you any hope that they will be true to you when a party of them used to listen to the word of Allah, then used to change it, after they had understood it, knowingly ?

> <span id="v76">76</span> And when they fall in with those who believe, they say: We believe. But when they go apart one with another they say: Prate you to them of that which Allah has disclosed to you that they may contend with you before your Lord concerning it ? Have you then no sense ?

> <span id="v77">77</span> Are they then unaware that Allah knows that which they keep hidden and that which they proclaim ?

> <span id="v78">78</span> Among them are unlettered folk who know the Scripture not except from hearsay. They but guess.

> <span id="v79">79</span> Therefore woe be to those who write the Scripture with their hands and then say, "This is from Allah," that they may purchase a small gain therewith. Woe to them for that their hands have written, and woe to them for that they earn thereby.

> <span id="v80">80</span> And they say: The Fire (of punishment) will not touch us save for a certain number of days. Say: Have you received a covenant from Allah - truly Allah will not break His covenant - or tell you concerning Allah that which you know not ?

> <span id="v81">81</span> No, but whosoever has done evil and his sin surrounds him; such are rightful owners of the Fire; they will abide therein.

> <span id="v82">82</span> And those who believe and do good works: such are rightful owners of the Garden. They will abide therein.

> <span id="v83">83</span> And (remember) when We made a covenant with the Children of Israel, (saying): Worship none save Allah (only), and be good to parents and to kindred and to orphans and the needy, and speak kindly to mankind; and establish worship and pay the poor-due. Then, after that, you slid back, save a few of you, being averse.

> <span id="v84">84</span> And when We made with you a covenant (saying): Shed not the blood of your people nor turn (a party of) your people out of your dwellings. Then you ratified (Our covenant) and you were witnesses (thereto).

> <span id="v85">85</span> Yet you it is who slay each other and drive out a party of your people from their homes, supporting one another against them by sin and transgression ? - and if they came to you as captives you would ransom them, whereas their expulsion was itself unlawful for you - Believe you in part of the Scripture and disbelieve you in part thereof ? And what is the reward of those who do so save ignominy in the life of the world, and on the Day of Resurrection they will be consigned to the most grievous doom. For Allah is not unaware of what you do.

> <span id="v86">86</span> Such are those who buy the life of the world at the price of the Hereafter. Their punishment will not be lightened, neither will they have support.

> <span id="v87">87</span> And verily We gave to Moses the Scripture and We caused a train of messengers to follow after him, and We gave to Jesus, son of Mary, clear proofs (of Allah's sovereignty), and We supported him with the Holy spirit. Is it ever so, that, when there comes to you a messenger (from Allah) with that which you yourselves desire not, you grow arrogant, and some you disbelieve and some you slay ?

> <span id="v88">88</span> And they say: Our hearts are hardened. No, but Allah has cursed them for their unbelief. Little is that which they believe.

> <span id="v89">89</span> And when there comes to them a scripture from Allah, confirming that in their possession - though before that they were asking for a signal triumph over those who disbelieved - and when there comes to them that which they know (to be the truth) they disbelieve therein. The curse of Allah is on disbelievers.

> <span id="v90">90</span> Evil is that for which they sell their souls: that they should disbelieve in that which Allah has revealed, grudging that Allah should reveal of His bounty to whom He will of His slaves. They have incurred anger upon anger. For disbelievers is a shameful doom.

> <span id="v91">91</span> And when it is said to them: Believe in that which Allah has revealed, they say: We believe in that which was revealed to us. And they disbelieve in that which comes after it, though it is the truth confirming that which they possess. Say (unto them, O Muhammad): Why then slew you the prophets of Allah aforetime, if you are (indeed) believers ?

> <span id="v92">92</span> And Moses came to you with clear proofs (of Allah's Sovereignty), yet, while he was away, you chose the calf (for worship) and you were wrong-doers.

> <span id="v93">93</span> And when We made with you a covenant and caused the Mount to tower above you, (saying): Hold fast by that which We have given you, and hear (Our Word), they said: We hear and we rebel. And (worship of) the calf was made to sink into their hearts because of their rejection (of the covenant). Say (unto them): Evil is that which your belief urges on you, if you are believers.

> <span id="v94">94</span> Say (unto them): If the abode of the Hereafter in the providence of Allah is indeed for you alone and not for others of mankind (as you pretend), then long for death (for you must long for death) if you are truthful.

> <span id="v95">95</span> But they will never long for it, because of that which their own hands have sent before them. Allah is aware of evil-doers.

> <span id="v96">96</span> And you will find them greediest of mankind for life and (greedier) than the idolaters. (Each) one of them would like to be allowed to live a thousand years. And to live (a thousand years) would be no means remove him from the doom. Allah is Seer of what they do.

> <span id="v97">97</span> Say (O Muhammad, to mankind): Who is an enemy to Gabriel! For he it is who has revealed (this Scripture) to your heart by Allah's leave, confirming that which was (revealed) before it, and a guidance and glad tidings to believers;

> <span id="v98">98</span> Who is an enemy to Allah, and His angels and His messengers, and Gabriel and Michael! Then, see! Allah (Himself) is an enemy to the disbelievers.

> <span id="v99">99</span> Verily We have revealed to you clear tokens, and only miscreants will disbelieve in them.

> <span id="v100">100</span> Is it ever so that when they make a covenant a party of them set it aside ? The truth is, most of them believe not.

> <span id="v101">101</span> And when there comes to them a messenger from Allah, confirming that which they possess, a party of those who have received the Scripture fling the Scripture of Allah behind their backs as if they knew not,

> <span id="v102">102</span> And follow that which the devils falsely related against the kingdom of Solomon. Solomon disbelieved not; but the devils disbelieved, teaching mankind magic and that which was revealed to the two angels in Babel, Harut and Marut. Nor did they (the two angels) teach it to anyone till they had said: We are only a temptation, therefore disbelieve not (in the guidance of Allah). And from these two (angles) people learn that by which they cause division between man and wife; but they injure thereby no-one save by Allah's leave. And they learn that which harms them and profits them not. And surely they do know that he who trafficks therein will have no (happy) portion in the Hereafter; and surely evil is the price for which they sell their souls, if they but knew.

> <span id="v103">103</span> And if they had believed and kept from evil, a recompense from Allah would be better, if they only knew.

> <span id="v104">104</span> O you who believe, say not (unto the Prophet): "Listen to us" but say "Look upon us," and be you listeners. For disbelievers is a painful doom.

> <span id="v105">105</span> Neither those who disbelieve among the people of the Scripture nor the idolaters love that there should be sent down to you any good thing from your Lord. But Allah chooses for His mercy whom He will, and Allah is of Infinite Bounty.

> <span id="v106">106</span> Nothing of our revelation (even a single verse) do we abrogate or cause be forgotten, but we bring (in place) one better or the like thereof. Knowest you not that Allah is Able to do all things ?

> <span id="v107">107</span> Knowest you not that it is Allah to Whom belongs the Sovereignty of the heavens and the earth; and you have not, beside Allah, any guardian or helper ?

> <span id="v108">108</span> Or would you question your messenger as Moses was questioned aforetime ? He who chooses disbelief instead of faith, verily he has gone astray from a plain road.

> <span id="v109">109</span> Many of the people of the Scripture long to make you disbelievers after your belief, through envy on their own account, after the truth has become manifest to them. Forgive and be indulgent (toward them) until Allah give command. See! Allah is Able to do all things.

> <span id="v110">110</span> Establish worship, and pay the poor-due; and whatever of good you send before (you) for your souls, you will find it with Allah. See! Allah is Seer of what you do.

> <span id="v111">111</span> And they say: None enters paradise unless he be a Jew or a Christian. These are their own desires. Say: Bring your proof (of what you state) if you are truthful.

> <span id="v112">112</span> No, but whosoever surrenders his purpose to Allah while doing good, his reward is with his Lord; and there shall no fear come upon them neither shall they grieve.

> <span id="v113">113</span> And the Jews say the Christians follow nothing (true), and the Christians say the Jews follow nothing (true); yet both are readers of the Scripture. Even thus speak those who know not. Allah will judge between them on the Day of Resurrection concerning that wherein they differ.

> <span id="v114">114</span> And who does greater wrong than he who forbidds the approach to the sanctuaries of Allah lest His name should be mentioned therein, and strives for their ruin. As for such, it was never meant that they should enter them except in fear. Theirs in the world is ignominy and theirs in the Hereafter is an awful doom.

> <span id="v115">115</span> Unto Allah belong the East and the West, and whithersoever you turn, there is Allah's Countenance. See! Allah is All-Embracing, All-Knowing.

> <span id="v116">116</span> And they say: Allah has taken to Himself a son. Be He glorified! No, but whatsoever is in the heavens and the earth is His. All are subservient to Him.

> <span id="v117">117</span> The Originator of the heavens and the earth! When He decrees a thing, He said to it only: Be! and it is.

> <span id="v118">118</span> And those who have no knowledge say: Why does not Allah speak to us, or some sign come to us ? Even thus, as they now speak, spake those (who were) before them. Their hearts are all alike. We have made clear the revelations for people who are sure.

> <span id="v119">119</span> See! We have sent you (O Muhammad) with the truth, a bringer of glad tidings and a warner. And you will not be asked about the owners of hell-fire.

> <span id="v120">120</span> And the Jews will not be pleased with you, nor will the Christians, till you follow their creed. Say: See! the guidance of Allah (Himself) is Guidance. And if you shouldst follow their desires after the knowledge which has come to you, then wouldst you have from Allah no protecting guardian nor helper.

> <span id="v121">121</span> Those to whom We have given the Scripture, who read it with the right reading, those believe in it. And whoso disbelieves in it, those are they who are the losers.

> <span id="v122">122</span> O Children of Israel! Remember My favour wherewith I favoured you and how I preferred you to (all) creatures.

> <span id="v123">123</span> And guard (yourselves) against a day when no soul will in aught avail another, nor will compensation be accepted from it, nor will intercession be of use to it; nor will they be helped.

> <span id="v124">124</span> And (remember) when his Lord tried Abraham with (His) commands, and he fulfilled them, He said: See! I have appointed you a leader for mankind. (Abraham) said: And of my offspring (will there be leaders) ? He said: My covenant includeth not wrong-doers.

> <span id="v125">125</span> And when We made the House (at Makka) a resort for mankind and sanctuary, (saying): Take as your place of worship the place where Abraham stood (to pray). And We imposed a duty upon Abraham and Ishmael, (saying): Purify My house for those who go around and those who meditate therein and those who bow down and prostrate themselves (in worship).

> <span id="v126">126</span> And when Abraham prayed: My Lord! Make this a region of security and bestow upon its people fruits, such of them as believe in Allah and the Last Day, He answered: As for him who disbelieves, I shall leave him in contentment for a while, then I shall compel him to the doom of Fire - a hapless journey's end!

> <span id="v127">127</span> And when Abraham and Ishmael were raising the foundations of the House, (Abraham prayed): Our Lord! Accept from us (this duty). See! Thou, only Thou, are the Hearer, the Knower.

> <span id="v128">128</span> Our Lord! And make us submissive to you and of our seed a nation submissive to Thee, and show us our ways of worship, and relent toward us. See! Thou, only Thou, are the Relenting, the Merciful.

> <span id="v129">129</span> Our Lord! And raise up in their midst a messenger from among them who shall recite to them your revelations, and shall instruct them in the Scripture and in wisdom and shall make them grow. See! Thou, only Thou, are the Mighty, Wise.

> <span id="v130">130</span> And who forsaketh the religion of Abraham save him who befooleth himself ? Verily We chose him in the world, and see! in the Hereafter he is among the righteous.

> <span id="v131">131</span> When his Lord said to him: Surrender! he said: I have surrendered to the Lord of the Worlds.

> <span id="v132">132</span> The same did Abraham enjoin upon his sons, and also Jacob, (saying): O my sons! See! Allah has chosen for you the (true) religion; therefore die not save as men who have surrendered (unto Him).

> <span id="v133">133</span> Or were you present when death came to Jacob, when he said to his sons: What will you worship after me ? They said: We shall worship your God, the God of your fathers, Abraham and Ishmael and Isaac, One God, and to Him we have surrendered.

> <span id="v134">134</span> Those are a people who have passed away. Theirs is that which they earned, and yours is that which you earn. And you will not be asked of what they used to do.

> <span id="v135">135</span> And they say: Be Jews or Christians, then you will be rightly guided. Say (unto them, O Muhammad): No, but (we follow) the religion of Abraham, the upright, and he was not of the idolaters.

> <span id="v136">136</span> Say (O Muslims): We believe in Allah and that which is revealed to us and that which was revealed to Abraham, and Ishmael, and Isaac, and Jacob, and the tribes, and that which Moses and Jesus received, and that which the prophets received from their Lord. We make no distinction between any of them, and to Him we have surrendered.

> <span id="v137">137</span> And if they believe in the like of that which you believe, then are they rightly guided. But if they turn away, then are they in schism, and Allah will suffice you (for defence) against them. He is the Hearer, the Knower.

> <span id="v138">138</span> (We take our) colour from Allah, and who is better than Allah at colouring. We are His worshippers.

> <span id="v139">139</span> Say (unto the People of the Scripture): Dispute you with us concerning Allah when He is our Lord and your Lord ? Ours are our works and yours your works. We look to Him alone.

> <span id="v140">140</span> Or say you that Abraham, and Ishmael, and Isaac, and Jacob, and the tribes were Jews or Christians ? Say: Do you know best, or does Allah ? And who is more unjust than he who hideth a testimony which he has received from Allah ? Allah is not unaware of what you do.

> <span id="v141">141</span> Those are a people who have passed away; theirs is that which they earned and yours that which you earn. And you will not be asked of what they used to do.

> <span id="v142">142</span> The foolish of the people will say: What has turned them from the qiblah which they formerly observed ? Say: Unto Allah belong the East and the West. He guideth whom He will to a straight path.

> <span id="v143">143</span> Thus We have appointed you a middle nation, that you may be witnesses against mankind, and that the messenger may be a witness against you. And We appointed the qiblah which you formerly observed only that We might know him who follows the messenger, from him who turns on his heels. In truth it was a hard (test) save for those whom Allah guided. But it was not Allah's purpose that your faith should be in vain, for Allah is Full of Pity, Merciful toward mankind.

> <span id="v144">144</span> We have seen the turning of your face to heaven (for guidance, O Muhammad). And now verily We shall make you turn (in prayer) toward a qiblah which is dear to you. So turn your face toward the Inviolable Place of Worship, and you (O Muslims), wheresoever you may be, turn your faces (when you pray) toward it. See! Those who have received the Scripture know that (this revelation) is the Truth from their Lord. And Allah is not unaware of what they do.

> <span id="v145">145</span> And even if you broughtest to those who have received the Scripture all kinds of portents, they would not follow your qiblah, nor canst you be a follower of their qiblah; nor are some of them followers of the qiblah of others. And if you shouldst follow their desires after the knowledge which has come to you, then surely wert you of the evil-doers.

> <span id="v146">146</span> Those to whom We gave the Scripture recognise (this revelation) as they recognise their sons. But see! a party of them knowingly conceal the truth.

> <span id="v147">147</span> It is the Truth from your Lord (O Muhammad), so be not you of those who waver.

> <span id="v148">148</span> And each one has a goal toward which he turns; so vie with one another in good works. Wheresoever you may be, Allah will bring you all together. See! Allah is Able to do all things.

> <span id="v149">149</span> And whencesoever you comest forth (for prayer, O Muhammad) turn your face toward the Inviolable Place of Worship. See! it is the Truth from your Lord. Allah is not unaware of what you do.

> <span id="v150">150</span> Whencesoever you comest forth turn your face toward the Inviolable Place of Worship; and wheresoever you may be (O Muslims) turn your faces toward it (when you pray) so that men may have no argument against you, save such of them as do injustice - Fear them not, but fear Me! - and so that I may complete My grace upon you, and that you may be guided.

> <span id="v151">151</span> Even as We have sent to you a messenger from among you, who reciteth to you Our revelations and causes you to grow, and teaches you the Scripture and wisdom, and teaches you that which you knew not.

> <span id="v152">152</span> Therefore remember Me, I will remember you. Give thanks to Me, and reject not Me.

> <span id="v153">153</span> O you who believe! Seek help in steadfastness and prayer. See! Allah is with the steadfast.

> <span id="v154">154</span> And call not those who are slain in the way of Allah "dead." No, they are living, only you perceive not.

> <span id="v155">155</span> And surely We shall try you with something of fear and hunger, and loss of wealth and lives and crops; but give glad tidings to the steadfast,

> <span id="v156">156</span> Who say, when a misfortune striketh them: See! we are Allah's and see! to Him we are returning.

> <span id="v157">157</span> Such are they on whom are blessings from their Lord, and mercy. Such are the rightly guided.

> <span id="v158">158</span> See! (the mountains) As-Safa and Al-Marwah are among the indications of Allah. It is therefore no sin for him who is on pilgrimage to the House (of God) or visiteth it, to go around them (as the pagan custom is). And he who does good of his own accord, (for him) see! Allah is Responsive, Aware.

> <span id="v159">159</span> See! Those who hide the proofs and the guidance which We revealed, after We had made it clear to mankind in the Scripture: such are accursed of Allah and accursed of those who have the power to curse.

> <span id="v160">160</span> Except those who repent and amend and make manifest (the truth). These it is toward whom I relent. I am the Relenting, the Merciful.

> <span id="v161">161</span> See! Those who disbelieve, and die while they are disbelievers; on them is the curse of Allah and of angels and of men combined.

> <span id="v162">162</span> They ever dwell therein. The doom will not be lightened for them, neither will they be reprieved.

> <span id="v163">163</span> Your God is One God; there is no God save Him, the Beneficent, the Merciful.

> <span id="v164">164</span> See! In the creation of the heavens and the earth, and the difference of night and day, and the ships which run upon the sea with that which is of use to men, and the water which Allah sendeth down from the sky, thereby reviving the earth after its death, and dispersing all kinds of beasts therein, and (in) the ordinance of the winds, and the clouds obedient between heaven and earth: are signs (of Allah's Sovereignty) for people who have sense.

> <span id="v165">165</span> Yet of mankind are some who take to themselves (objects of worship which they set as) rivals to Allah, loving them with a love like (that which is the due) of Allah (only) - those who believe are stauncher in their love for Allah - Oh, that those who do evil had but known, (on the day) when they behold the doom, that power belongeth wholly to Allah, and that Allah is severe in punishment!

> <span id="v166">166</span> (On the day) when those who were followed disown those who followed (them), and they behold the doom, and all their aims collapse with them.

> <span id="v167">167</span> And those who were but followers will say: If a return were possible for us, we would disown them even as they have disowned us. Thus will Allah show them their own deeds as anguish for them, and they will not emerge from the Fire.

> <span id="v168">168</span> O mankind! Eat of that which is lawful and wholesome in the earth, and follow not the footsteps of the devil. See! he is an open enemy for you.

> <span id="v169">169</span> He encourages only the evil and the foul, and that you should tell concerning Allah that which you know not.

> <span id="v170">170</span> And when it is said to them: Follow that which Allah has revealed, they say: We follow that wherein we found our fathers. What! Even though their fathers were wholly unintelligent and had no guidance ?

> <span id="v171">171</span> The likeness of those who disbelieve (in relation to the messenger) is as the likeness of one who calleth to that which heareth nothing except a shout and cry. Deaf, dumb, blind, therefore they have no sense.

> <span id="v172">172</span> O you who believe! Eat of the good things wherewith We have provided you, and render thanks to Allah if it is (indeed) He Whom you worship.

> <span id="v173">173</span> He has forbidden you only carrion, and blood, and swineflesh, and that which has been immolated to (the name of) any other than Allah. But he who is driven by necessity, neither craving nor transgressing, it is no sin for him. See! Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v174">174</span> See! those who hide aught of the Scripture which Allah has revealed and purchase a small gain therewith, they eat into their bellies nothing else than fire. Allah will not speak to them on the Day of Resurrection, nor will He make them grow. Theirs will be a painful doom.

> <span id="v175">175</span> Those are they who purchase error at the price of guidance, and torment at the price of pardon. How constant are they in their strife to reach the Fire!

> <span id="v176">176</span> That is because Allah has revealed the Scripture with the truth. See! those who find (a cause of) disagreement in the Scripture are in open schism.

> <span id="v177">177</span> It is not righteousness that you turn your faces to the East and the West; but righteous is he who believes in Allah and the Last Day and the angels and the Scripture and the prophets; and gives wealth, for love of Him, to kinsfolk and to orphans and the needy and the wayfarer and to those who ask, and to set slaves free; and observeth proper worship and payeth the poor-due. And those who keep their treaty when they make one, and the patient in tribulation and adversity and time of stress. Such are they who are sincere. Such are the God-fearing.

> <span id="v178">178</span> O you who believe! Retaliation is prescribed for you in the matter of the murdered; the freeman for the freeman, and the slave for the slave, and the female for the female. And for him who is forgiven somewhat by his (injured) brother, prosecution according to usage and payment to him in kindness. This is an alleviation and a mercy from your Lord. He who transgresseth after this will have a painful doom.

> <span id="v179">179</span> And there is life for you in retaliation, O men of understanding, that you may ward off (evil).

> <span id="v180">180</span> It is prescribed for you, when death approacheth one of you, if he leave wealth, that he bequeath to parents and near relatives in kindness. (This is) a duty for all those who ward off (evil).

> <span id="v181">181</span> And whoso changeth (the will) after he has heard it - the sin thereof is only upon those who change it. See! Allah is Hearer, Knower.

> <span id="v182">182</span> But he who feareth from a testator some unjust or sinful clause, and maketh peace between the parties, (it shall be) no sin for him. See! Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v183">183</span> O you who believe! Fasting is prescribed for you, even as it was prescribed for those before you, that you may ward off (evil);

> <span id="v184">184</span> (Fast) a certain number of days; and (for) him who is sick among you, or on a journey, (the same) number of other days; and for those who can afford it there is a ransom: the feeding of a man in need - but whoso does good of his own accord, it is better for him: and that you fast is better for you if you did but know -

> <span id="v185">185</span> The month of Ramadan in which was revealed the Qur'an, a guidance for mankind, and clear proofs of the guidance, and the Criterion (of right and wrong). And whosoever of you is present, let him fast the month, and whosoever of you is sick or on a journey, (let him fast the same) number of other days. Allah desireth for you ease; He desireth not hardship for you; and (He desireth) that you should complete the period, and that you should magnify Allah for having guided you, and that peradventure you may be thankful.

> <span id="v186">186</span> And when My servants question you concerning Me, then surely I am nigh. I answer the prayer of the suppliant when he crieth to Me. So let them hear My call and let them trust in Me, in order that they may be led aright.

> <span id="v187">187</span> It is made lawful for you to go in to your wives on the night of the fast. They are raiment for you and you are raiment for them. Allah is Aware that you were deceiving yourselves in this respect and He has turned in mercy toward you and relieved you. So hold intercourse with them and seek that which Allah has ordained for you, and eat and drink until the white thread becomes distinct to you from the black thread of the dawn. Then strictly observe the fast till nightfall and touch them not, but be at your devotions in the mosques. These are the limits imposed by Allah, so approach them not. Thus Allah expoundeth His revelation to mankind that they may ward off (evil).

> <span id="v188">188</span> And eat not up your property among yourselves in vanity, nor seek by it to gain the hearing of the judges that you may knowingly devour a portion of the property of others wrongfully.

> <span id="v189">189</span> They ask you, (O Muhammad), of new moons, say: They are fixed seasons for mankind and for the pilgrimage. It is not righteousness that you go to houses by the backs thereof (as do the idolaters at certain seasons), but the righteous man is he who wardeth off (evil). So go to houses by the gates thereof, and observe your duty to Allah, that you may be successful.

> <span id="v190">190</span> Fight in the way of Allah against those who fight against you, but begin not hostilities. See! Allah loveth not aggressors.

> <span id="v191">191</span> And slay them wherever you find them, and drive them out of the places whence they drove you out, for persecution is worse than slaughter. And fight not with them at the Inviolable Place of Worship until they first attack you there, but if they attack you (there) then slay them. Such is the reward of disbelievers.

> <span id="v192">192</span> But if they desist, then see! Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v193">193</span> And fight them until persecution is no more, and religion is for Allah. But if they desist, then let there be no hostility except against wrong-doers.

> <span id="v194">194</span> The forbidden month for the forbidden month, and forbidden things in retaliation. And one who attacketh you, attack him in like manner as he attacked you. Observe your duty to Allah, and know that Allah is with those who ward off (evil).

> <span id="v195">195</span> Spend your wealth for the cause of Allah, and be not cast by your own hands to ruin; and do good. See! Allah loveth the beneficent.

> <span id="v196">196</span> Perform the pilgrimage and the visit (to Makka) for Allah. And if you are prevented, then send such gifts as can be obtained with ease, and shave not your heads until the gifts have reached their destination. And whoever among you is sick or has an ailment of the head must pay a ransom of fasting or almsgiving or offering. And if you are in safety, then whosoever contenteth himself with the visit for the pilgrimage (shall give) such gifts as can be had with ease. And whosoever cannot find (such gifts), then a fast of three days while on the pilgrimage, and of seven when you have returned; that is, ten in all. That is for him whoso folk are not present at the Inviolable Place of Worship. Observe your duty to Allah, and know that Allah is severe in punishment.

> <span id="v197">197</span> The pilgrimage is (in) the well-known months, and whoever is minded to perform the pilgrimage therein (let him remember that) there is (to be) no lewdness nor abuse nor angry conversation on the pilgrimage. And whatsoever good you do Allah knows it. So make provision for yourselves (Hereafter); for the best provision is to ward off evil. Therefore keep your duty to Me, O men of understanding.

> <span id="v198">198</span> It is no sin for you that you seek the bounty of your Lord (by trading). But, when you press on in the multitude from 'Arafat, remember Allah by the sacred monument. Remember Him as He has guided you, although before you were of those astray.

> <span id="v199">199</span> Then hasten onward from the place whence the multitude hasteneth onward, and ask forgiveness of Allah. See! Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v200">200</span> And when you have completed your devotions, then remember Allah as you remember your fathers or with a more lively remembrance. But of mankind is he who said: "Our Lord! Give to us in the world," and he has no portion in the Hereafter.

> <span id="v201">201</span> And of them (also) is he who said: "Our Lord! Give to us in the world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and guard us from the doom of Fire."

> <span id="v202">202</span> For them there is in store a goodly portion out of that which they have earned. Allah is swift at reckoning.

> <span id="v203">203</span> Remember Allah through the appointed days. Then whoso hasteneth (his departure) by two days, it is no sin for him, and whoso delayeth, it is no sin for him; that is for him who wardeth off (evil). Be careful of your duty to Allah, and know that to Him you will be gathered.

> <span id="v204">204</span> And of mankind there is he whoso conversation on the life of this world pleaseth you (Muhammad), and he calleth Allah to witness as to that which is in his heart; yet he is the most rigid of opponents.

> <span id="v205">205</span> And when he turns away (from you) his effort in the land is to make mischief therein and to destroy the crops and the cattle; and Allah loveth not mischief.

> <span id="v206">206</span> And when it is said to him: Be careful of your duty to Allah, pride taketh him to sin. Hell will settle his account, an evil resting-place.

> <span id="v207">207</span> And of mankind is he who would sell himself, seeking the pleasure of Allah; and Allah has compassion on (His) bondmen.

> <span id="v208">208</span> O you who believe! Come, all of you, into submission (unto Him); and follow not the footsteps of the devil. See! he is an open enemy for you.

> <span id="v209">209</span> And if you slide back after the clear proofs have come to you, then know that Allah is Mighty, Wise.

> <span id="v210">210</span> Wait they for nothing else than that Allah should come to them in the shadows of the clouds with the angels ? Then the case would be already judged. All cases go back to Allah (for judgment).

> <span id="v211">211</span> Ask of the Children of Israel how many a clear revelation We gave them! He who altereth the grace of Allah after it has come to him (for him), see! Allah is severe in punishment.

> <span id="v212">212</span> Beautified is the life of the world for those who disbelieve; they make a jest of the believers. But those who keep their duty to Allah will be above them on the Day of Resurrection. Allah gives without stint to whom He will.

> <span id="v213">213</span> Mankind were one community, and Allah sent (unto them) prophets as bearers of good tidings and as warners, and revealed therewith the Scripture with the truth that it might judge between mankind concerning that wherein they differed. And only those to whom (the Scripture) was given differed concerning it, after clear proofs had come to them, through hatred one of another. And Allah by His Will guided those who believe to the truth of that concerning which they differed. Allah guideth whom He will to a straight path.

> <span id="v214">214</span> Or think you that you will enter paradise while yet there has not come to you the like of (that which came to) those who passed away before you ? Affliction and adversity befell them, they were shaken as with earthquake, till the messenger (of Allah) and those who believed along with him said: When comes Allah's help ? Now surely Allah's help is nigh.

> <span id="v215">215</span> They ask you, (O Muhammad), what they shall spend. Say: that which you spend for good (must go) to parents and near kindred and orphans and the needy and the wayfarer. And whatsoever good you do, see! Allah is Aware of it.

> <span id="v216">216</span> Warfare is ordained for you, though it is hateful to you; but it may happen that you hate a thing which is good for you, and it may happen that you love a thing which is bad for you. Allah knoweth, you know not.

> <span id="v217">217</span> They question you (O Muhammad) with regard to warfare in the sacred month. Say: Warfare therein is a great (transgression), but to turn (men) from the way of Allah, and to disbelieve in Him and in the Inviolable Place of Worship, and to expel His people thence, is a greater with Allah; for persecution is worse than killing. And they will not cease from fighting against you till they have made you renegades from your religion, if they can. And whoso becomes a renegade and dieth in his disbelief: such are they whose works have fallen both in the world and the Hereafter. Such are rightful owners of the Fire: they will abide therein.

> <span id="v218">218</span> See! those who believe, and those who emigrate (to escape the persecution) and strive in the way of Allah, these have hope of Allah's mercy. Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v219">219</span> They question you about strong drink and games of chance. Say: In both is great sin, and (some) utility for men; but the sin of them is greater than their usefulness. And they ask you what they ought to spend. Say: that which is superfluous. Thus Allah maketh plain to you (His) revelations, that haply you may reflect.

> <span id="v220">220</span> Upon the world and the Hereafter. And they question you concerning orphans. Say: To improve their lot is best. And if you mingle your affairs with theirs, then (they are) your brothers. Allah knows him who spoileth from him who improveth. Had Allah willed He could have overburdened you. Allah is Mighty, Wise.

> <span id="v221">221</span> Wed not idolatresses till they believe; for see! a believing bondwoman is better than an idolatress though she please you; and give not your daughters in marriage to idolaters till they believe, for see! a believing slave is better than an idolater though he please you. These invite to the Fire, and Allah inviteth to the Garden, and to forgiveness by His grace, and expoundeth His revelations to mankind that haply they may remember.

> <span id="v222">222</span> They question you (O Muhammad) concerning menstruation. Say: It is an illness, so let women alone at such times and go not in to them till they are cleansed. And when they have purified themselves, then go in to them as Allah has enjoined upon you. Truly Allah loveth those who turn to Him, and loveth those who have a care for cleanness.

> <span id="v223">223</span> Your women are a tilth for you (to cultivate) so go to your tilth as you will, and send (good deeds) before you for your souls, and fear Allah, and know that you will (one day) meet Him. Give glad tidings to believers, (O Muhammad).

> <span id="v224">224</span> And make not Allah, by your oaths, a hindrance to your being righteous and observing your duty to Him and making peace among mankind. Allah is Hearer, Knower.

> <span id="v225">225</span> Allah will not take you to task for that which is unintentional in your oaths. But He will take you to task for that which your hearts have garnered. Allah is Forgiving, Clement.

> <span id="v226">226</span> Those who forswear their wives must wait four months; then, if they change their mind, see! Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.

## Laws on divorce

> <span id="v227">227</span> And if they decide upon divorce (let them remember that) Allah is Hearer, Knower.

The Christian view of divorce is serious. A Christian can only divorce in cases of adultery. The Bible points out that God hates divorce and that the only acceptable cause for divorce is infidelity. (Malachi 2:16; Matthew 5:32) Innislam, anyone can divorce for any reason whatsoever. This contradiction shows that the Quran does not come from the same source as the Bible.

((2:227, Contradictions, Quran contradicts Bible, Divorce))


> <span id="v228">228</span> Women who are divorced shall wait, keeping themselves apart, three (monthly) courses. And it is not lawful for them that they should conceal that which Allah has created in their wombs if they are believers in Allah and the Last Day. And their husbands would do better to take them back in that case if they desire a reconciliation. And they (women) have rights similar to those (of men) over them in kindness, and men are a degree above them. Allah is Mighty, Wise.

> <span id="v229">229</span> Divorce must be pronounced twice and then (a woman) must be retained in honour or released in kindness. And it is not lawful for you that you take from women aught of that which you have given them; except (in the case) when both fear that they may not be able to keep within the limits (imposed by) Allah. And if you fear that they may not be able to keep the limits of Allah, in that case it is no sin for either of them if the woman ransom herself. These are the limits (imposed by) Allah. Transgress them not. For whoso transgresseth Allah's limits: such are wrong-doers.

> <span id="v230">230</span> And if he has divorced her (the third time), then she is not lawful to him thereafter until she has wedded another husband. Then if he (the other husband) divorce her it is no sin for both of them that they come together again if they consider that they are able to observe the limits of Allah. These are the limits of Allah. He manifesteth them for people who have knowledge.


Jews under the mosaic law a man could not divorce and later remarry the same woman. (Deu 24:1-4) Thaw was an abomination in the eyes of God. In Islam matters are the polar opposite, here if a man divorces a woman **then she is not lawful to him thereafter until she has wedded another husband. Then if he (the other husband) divorce her it is no sin for both of them that they come together again**. According to the Quran she *must* be married to another husband before she can be remarried to the first. According to the Bible, if she marries and divorces another husband, the first husband is not allowed to remarry her. This is a contradiction, which shows that the Quran does not come from the same source as the Bible.

((2:230, Contradictions, Quran contradicts Bible, Divorce))

> <span id="v231">231</span> When you have divorced women, and they have reached their term, then retain them in kindness or release them in kindness. Retain them not to their hurt so that you transgress (the limits). He who does that has wronged his soul. Make not the revelations of Allah a laughing-stock (by your behaviour), but remember Allah's grace upon you and that which He has revealed to you of the Scripture and of wisdom, whereby He does exhort you. Observe your duty to Allah and know that Allah is Aware of all things.

> <span id="v232">232</span> And when you have divorced women and they reach their term, place not difficulties in the way of their marrying their husbands if it is agreed between them in kindness. This is an admonition for him among you who believes in Allah and the Last Day. That is more virtuous for you, and cleaner. Allah knoweth; you know not.

## Laws about weaning children

> <span id="v233">233</span> Mothers shall suckle their children for two whole years; (that is) for those who wish to complete the suckling. The duty of feeding and clothing nursing mothers in a seemly manner is upon the father of the child. No-one should be charged beyond his capacity. A mother should not be made to suffer because of her child, nor should he to whom the child is born (be made to suffer) because of his child. And on the (father's) heir is incumbent the like of that (which was incumbent on the father). If they desire to wean the child by mutual consent and (after) consultation, it is no sin for them; and if you wish to give your children out to nurse, it is no sin for you, provide that you pay what is due from you in kindness. Observe your duty to Allah, and know that Allah is Seer of what you do.

Since Muslims do not take marriage seriously there is bound to be a lot of single baby mommas and baby daddies, so you need to have these laws for men to take the responsibility that they should have had to take if they could have stayed in a proper monogamous marriage.

(2:233, Marriage, Suckling, Weaning, Raising children, Parenthood)

## Laws on widowhood

> <span id="v234">234</span> Such of you as die and leave behind them wives, they (the wives) shall wait, keeping themselves apart, four months and ten days. And when they reach the term (prescribed for them) then there is no sin for you in aught that they may do with themselves in decency. Allah is informed of what you do.

> <span id="v235">235</span> There is no sin for you in that which you proclaim or hide in your minds concerning your troth with women. Allah knows that you will remember them. But plight not your troth with women except by uttering a recognised form of words. And do not consummate the marriage until (the term) prescribed is run. Know that Allah knows what is in your minds, so beware of Him; and know that Allah is Forgiving, Clement.

## Laws on divorce, again

> <span id="v236">236</span> It is no sin for you if you divorce women while yet you have not touched them, nor appointed to them a portion. Provide for them, the rich according to his means, and the straitened according to his means, a fair provision. (This is) a bounden duty for those who do good.

> <span id="v237">237</span> If you divorce them before you have touched them and you have appointed to them a portion, then (pay the) half of that which you appointed, unless they (the women) agree to forgo it, or he agreeth to forgo it in whose hand is the marriage tie. To forgo is nearer to piety. And forget not kindness among yourselves. Allah is Seer of what you do.

So if a man doesn't consummate the marriage with a woman, half the bride price is returned. In other words half the bride price is payment for sex. 

(2:237, Prostitution, Marriage)


## Prayer against danger

> <span id="v238">238</span> Be guardians of your prayers, and of the midmost prayer, and stand up with devotion to Allah.

> <span id="v239">239</span> And if you go in fear, then (pray) standing or on horseback. And when you are again in safety, remember Allah, as He has taught you that which (heretofore) you knew not.


## Laws on widowhood and divorce

> <span id="v240">240</span> (In the case of) those of you who are about to die and leave behind them wives, they should bequeath to their wives a provision for the year without turning them out, but if they go out (of their own accord) there is no sin for you in that which they do of themselves within their rights. Allah is Mighty, Wise.

((2:240, Inheritance))

> <span id="v241">241</span> For divorced women a provision in kindness: a duty for those who ward off (evil).

> <span id="v242">242</span> Thus Allah expoundeth to you His revelations so that you may understand.

## Violence

> <span id="v243">243</span> Bethink you (O Muhammad) of those of old, who went forth from their habitations in their thousands, fearing death, and Allah said to them: Die; and then He brought them back to life. See! Allah is a Lord of Kindness to mankind, but most of mankind give not thanks.

((2:243, Allah kind, Death))

> <span id="v244">244</span> Fight in the way of Allah, and know that Allah is Hearer, Knower.

Inciting Muslims to fight non-Muslims.

((2:244, Violence, Fighting unbelievers, Jihad)) 

## Donations

> <span id="v245">245</span> Who is it that will lend to Allah a goodly loan, so that He may give it increase manifold ? Allah straiteneth and enlargeth. Unto Him you will return.

((2:245, Allah is broke))

## Pseudo-history

> <span id="v246">246</span> Bethink you of the leaders of the Children of Israel after Moses, how they said to a prophet whom they had: **Set up for us a king and we will fight in Allah's way.** He said: Would you then refrain from fighting if fighting were prescribed for you ? They said: Why should we not fight in Allah's way when we have been driven from our dwellings with our children ? Yet, when fighting was prescribed for them, they turned away, all save a few of them. Allah is aware of evil-doers.

This paraphrases the passage in 1 Samuel 8, where Israel wants a king. But in this Islamic version, pay attention to how bloodthirsty they are. In the real version, they didn’t want a king so that they could go kill people, they wanted a king to judge them:

> Verse 4-5 Then all the elders of Israel gathered together and came to Samuel at Ramah 5 and said to him, “Behold, you are old and your sons do not walk in your ways. Now appoint for us a king to judge us like all the nations.”

Rather the prophet Samuel warns them that if they get a king, he would force their young men into military service:

> 1 Samuel 8:11 He said, “These will be the ways of the king who will reign over you: he will take your sons and appoint them to his chariots and to be his horsemen and to run before his chariots.

Having to go to war was something bad that the Israelites would rather avoid, but the Quran claims that they were bloodthirsty savages who only wanted a king so they could go to war.

((2:246, Violence, Samuel))

> <span id="v247">247</span> Their Prophet said to them: See! Allah has raised up Saul to be a king for you. **They said: How can he have kingdom over us when we are more deserving of the kingdom than he is, since he has not been given wealth enough?** He said: See! Allah has chosen him above you, and has increased him abundantly in wisdom and stature. Allah bestoweth His Sovereignty on whom He will. Allah is All-Embracing, All-Knowing.

It says they didn’t accept Saul because he wasn’t rich. Saul actually came from a quite wealthy family.

> 1 Samuel 9:1 There was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish, the son of Abiel, son of Zeror, son of Becorath, son of Aphiah, a Benjaminite, **a man of wealth**.

So the Quran is wrong on this point.

(2:257, Errors, Quran contradicts Bible, Saul (king), Samuel))

> <span id="v248">248</span> And their Prophet said to them: See! the token of his kingdom is that there shall come to you the ark wherein is peace of reassurance from your Lord, and a remnant of that which the house of Moses and the house of Aaron left behind, the angels bearing it. See! herein shall be a token for you if (in truth) you are believers.

The return of the Ark of the covenant happened in 1 Samuel 6, which happened when Samuel was a young boy, many decades before Saul was even born. This is yet another error in the Quran.

(2:258, Errors, Quran contradicts Bible, Saul (king), Samuel))

> <span id="v249">249</span> And when Saul set out with the army, he said: See! Allah will try you by (the ordeal of) a river. Whosoever therefore drinketh thereof he is not of me, and whosoever tasteth it not he is of me, save him who taketh (thereof) in the hollow of his hand. But they drank thereof, all save a few of them. And after he had crossed (the river), he and those who believed with him, they said: We have no power this day against Goliath and his hosts. But those who knew that they would meet Allah exclaimed: How many a little company has overcome a mighty host by Allah's leave! Allah is with the steadfast.

> <span id="v250">250</span> And when they went into the field against Goliath and his hosts they said: Our Lord! Bestow on us endurance, make our foothold sure, and give us help against the disbelieving folk.

> <span id="v251">251</span> So they routed them by Allah's leave and David slew Goliath; and Allah gave him the kingdom and wisdom, and taught him of that which He willeth. And if Allah had not repelled some men by others the earth would have been corrupted. But Allah is a Lord of Kindness to (His) creatures.

## Affirming the prophethood of Muhammad

> <span id="v252">252</span> These are the portents of Allah which We recite to you (Muhammad) with truth, and see! you are of the number of (Our) messengers;

So far it has only been a hot mess of incoherent schizophrenic ramblings and errors. A clear difference between Muhammad and Jesus in the next verse is that while Jesus actually had **clear proofs**, while Muhammad only has an oral confirmation, that only he himself heard. By that standard, anyone can claim to be a prophet.

(2:252, Muhammad, Muhammad false prophet, Trust me bro))

> <span id="v253">253</span> Of those messengers, some of whom We have caused to excel others, and of whom there are some to whom Allah spake, while some of them He exalted (above others) in degree; and We gave Jesus, son of Mary, clear proofs (of Allah's Sovereignty) and We supported him with the holy Spirit. And if Allah had so wiled it, those who followed after them would not have fought one with another after the clear proofs had come to them. But they differed, some of them believing and some disbelieving. And if Allah had so willed it, they would not have fought one with another; but Allah does what He will.

Muslims ought to consider why Allah said Jesus was **exalted (above others) in degree**. This alone should be reason for them to choose to follow Jesus rather than Muhammad.

Rather than disagreement being human nature, it says that the reason why some accepted Jesus and others didn't is because **Allah does what He will**. Disagreements and fights between religious factions is Allah’s will. He wants people to be divided and fighting. In other words Allah is a chaotic trixter.

((2:253, Jesus, Holy Spirit, Mary, Jesus special, Allah, Allah chaotic))

## Donations again

> <span id="v254">254</span> O you who believe! spend of that wherewith We have provided you ere a day come when there will be no trafficking, nor friendship, nor intercession. The disbelievers, they are the wrong-doers.

Seems like Allah is broke.

((2:254, Allah is broke, Donating))

## Nature of Allah

> <span id="v255">255</span> Allah! There is no God save Him, the Alive, the Eternal. Neither slumber nor sleep overtaketh Him. **Unto Him belongeth whatsoever is in the heavens and whatsoever is in the earth.** Who is he that intercedeth with Him save by His leave ? He knows that which is in front of them and that which is behind them, while they encompass nothing of His knowledge save what He will. **His throne includeth the heavens and the earth, and He is never weary of preserving them.** He is the Sublime, the Tremendous.

In the Bible, Jesus is described as the one owning and ruling over heaven and earth, and sustaining the universe. Considering the Auran affirms the Bible, this means the Quran admits that Jesus is God.

((2:255, Jesus is Allah, Quran affirms Bible, Allah almighty, Allahs throne))￼


## Freedom of religion

> <span id="v256">256</span> There is no compulsion in religion. The right direction is henceforward distinct from error. And he who rejecteth false deities and believes in Allah has grasped a firm handhold which will never break. Allah is Hearer, Knower.

"**There is no compulsion in religion.**" One of the verses used to defend Islam when someone rightly points out that Islam executes apostates. It was written before Muhammad went to Medina, during the time he was outnumbered. But that tone changed once he had an army. Islam always plays nice when outnumbered, but once it gains power the tyranny begins.

((2:256, Freedom of religion, Apostasy))

## Regular warnings and threats

> <span id="v257">257</span> Allah is the Protecting Guardian of those who believe. He brings  them out of darkness into light. As for those who disbelieve, their patrons are false deities. They bring them out of light into darkness. Such are rightful owners of the Fire. They will abide therein.

## More pseudo-history

> <span id="v258">258</span> Bethink you of him who had an argument with Abraham about his Lord, because Allah had given him the kingdom; how, when Abraham said: My Lord is He Who gives life and causes death, he answered: I give life and cause death. Abraham said: See! Allah causes the sun to rise in the East, so do you cause it to come up from the West. Thus was the disbeliever abashed. And Allah guideth not wrongdoing folk.

> <span id="v259">259</span> Or (bethink you of) the like of him who, passing by a township which had fallen into utter ruin, exclaimed: How shall Allah give this township life after its death ? And Allah made him die a hundred years, then brought him back to life. He said: How long hast you tarried ? (The man) said: I have tarried a day or part of a day. (He) said: No, but you hast tarried for a hundred years. Just look at your food and drink which have not rotted! Look at thine ass! And, that We may make you a token to mankind, look at the bones, how We adjust them and then cover them with flesh! And when (the matter) became clear to him, he said: I know now that Allah is Able to do all things.

> <span id="v260">260</span> And when Abraham said (unto his Lord): My Lord! Show me how You givest life to the dead, He said: Dost you not believe ? Abraham said: Yea, but (I ask) in order that my heart may be at ease. (His Lord) said: Take four of the birds and cause them to incline to you, then place a part of them on each hill, then call them, they will come to you in haste, and know that Allah is Mighty, Wise.

## Charity

> <span id="v261">261</span> The likeness of those who spend their wealth in Allah's way is as the likeness of a grain which groweth seven ears, in every ear a hundred grains. Allah gives increase manifold to whom He will. Allah is All-Embracing, All-Knowing.

> <span id="v262">262</span> Those who spend their wealth for the cause of Allah and afterward make not reproach and injury to follow that which they have spent; their reward is with their Lord, and there shall no fear come upon them, neither shall they grieve.

> <span id="v263">263</span> A kind word with forgiveness is better than almsgiving followed by injury. Allah is Absolute, Clement.

> <span id="v264">264</span> O you who believe! Render not vain your almsgiving by reproach and injury, like him who spendeth his wealth only to be seen of men and believes not in Allah and the Last Day. His likeness is as the likeness of a rock whereon is dust of earth; a rainstorm smiteth it, leaving it smooth and bare. They have no control of aught of that which they have gained. Allah guideth not the disbelieving folk.

> <span id="v265">265</span> And the likeness of those who spend their wealth in search of Allah's pleasure, and for the strengthening of their souls, is as the likeness of a garden on a height. The rainstorm smiteth it and it brings  forth its fruit twofold. And if the rainstorm smite it not, then the shower. Allah is Seer of what you do.

> <span id="v266">266</span> Would any of you like to have a garden of palm-trees and vines, with rivers flowing underneath it, with all kinds of fruit for him therein; and old age has stricken him and he has feeble offspring; and a fiery whirlwind striketh it and it is (all) consumed by fire. Thus Allah maketh plain His revelations to you, in order that you may give thought.

Surah 2:266 is cryptic but commentaries say it means that if someone does good and then turn to doing bad, all his good deeds are cancelled.

((2:266, Unreasonable demands))

> <span id="v267">267</span> O you who believe! Spend of the good things which you have earned, and of that which We bring forth from the earth for you, and seek not the bad (with intent) to spend thereof (in charity) when you would not take it for yourselves save with disdain; and know that Allah is Absolute, Owner of Praise.

> <span id="v268">268</span> The devil promiseth you destitution and encourages lewdness. But Allah promiseth you forgiveness from Himself with bounty. Allah is All-Embracing, All-knowing.

> <span id="v269">269</span> He gives wisdom to whom He will, and he to whom wisdom is given, he truly has received abundant good. But none remember except men of understanding.

> <span id="v270">270</span> Whatever alms you spend or vow you vow, see! Allah knows it. Wrong-doers have no helpers.

> <span id="v271">271</span> If you publish your almsgiving, it is well, but if you hide it and give it to the poor, it will be better for you, and will atone for some of your ill-deeds. Allah is Informed of what you do.


Surah 2:271 says **if you hide it and give it to the poor, it will be better for you, and will atone for some of your ill-deeds.** This is works-righteousness.

((2:271, Works-righteousness))


> <span id="v272">272</span> The guiding of them is not your duty (O Muhammad), but Allah guideth whom He will. And whatsoever good thing you spend, it is for yourselves, when you spend not save in search of Allah's Countenance; and whatsoever good thing you spend, it will be repaid to you in full, and you will not be wronged.

((2:272, Guidance, Charity, Donations))

> <span id="v273">273</span> (Alms are) for the poor who are straitened for the cause of Allah, who cannot travel in the land (for trade). The unthinking man accounteth them wealthy because of their restraint. You shalt know them by their mark: They do not beg of men with importunity. And whatsoever good thing you spend, see! Allah knows it.

((2:273, Charity, Donations))

> <span id="v274">274</span> Those who spend their wealth by night and day, by stealth and openly, verily their reward is with their Lord, and their shall no fear come upon them neither shall they grieve.

((2:274, Wealth, Charity, Donations))

## Interest and usury

> <span id="v275">275</span> Those who swallow usury cannot rise up save as he ariseth whom the devil has prostrated by (his) touch. That is because they say: Trade is just like usury; whereas Allah permitteth trading and forbiddeth usury. He to whom an admonition from his Lord cometh, and (he) refraineth (in obedience thereto), he shall keep (the profits of) that which is past, and his affair (henceforward) is with Allah. As for him who returns (to usury) - Such are rightful owners of the Fire. They will abide therein.

((2:275, Usury, Interest, Loans))

> <span id="v276">276</span> Allah has blighted usury and made almsgiving fruitful. Allah loveth not the impious and guilty.

((2:276, Usury, Charity))


> <span id="v277">277</span> See! those who believe and do good works and establish worship and pay the poor-due, their reward is with their Lord and there shall no fear come upon them neither shall they grieve.

((2:277, Works, Works-righteousness, Charity))


> <span id="v278">278</span> O you who believe! Observe your duty to Allah, and give up what remaineth (due to you) from usury, if you are (in truth) believers.

((2:278, Usury))

> <span id="v279">279</span> And if you do not, then be warned of war (against you) from Allah and His messenger. And if you repent, then you have your principal (without interest). Wrong not, and you shall not be wronged.

((2:279, Usury))


> <span id="v280">280</span> And if the debtor is in straitened circumstances, then (let there be) postponement to (the time of) ease; and that you remit the debt as almsgiving would be better for you if you did but know.

((2:280, Usury, Charity, Loans))


> <span id="v281">281</span> And guard yourselves against a day in which you will be brought back to Allah. Then every soul will be paid in full that which it has earned, and they will not be wronged.

## Contract law

> <span id="v282">282</span> O you who believe! When you contract a debt for a fixed term, record it in writing. Let a scribe record it in writing between you in (terms of) equity. No scribe should refuse to write as Allah has taught him, so let him write, and let him who incurreth the debt dictate, and let him observe his duty to Allah his Lord, and diminish nothing thereof. But if he who oweth the debt is of low understanding, or weak, or unable himself to dictate, then let the guardian of his interests dictate in (terms of) equity. **And call to witness, from among your men, two witnesses. And if two men be not (at hand) then a man and two women, of such as you approve as witnesses, so that if the one erreth (through forgetfulness) the other will remember.** And the witnesses must not refuse when they are summoned. Be not averse to writing down (the contract) whether it be small or great, with (record of) the term thereof. That is more equitable in the sight of Allah and more sure for testimony, and the best way of avoiding doubt between you; save only in the case when it is actual merchandise which you transfer among yourselves from hand to hand. In that case it is no sin for you if you write it not. And have witnesses when you sell one to another, and let no harm be done to scribe or witness. If you do (harm to them) see! it is a sin in you. Observe your duty to Allah. Allah is teaching you. And Allah is knower of all things.


In Islam, women are considered to be half as intelligent and trustworthy as a man, therefore if two men can not be found to witness the contract, one man and two women would suffice. Apparently women are so unreliable that they need to remind one another what to say.

((2:282, Sexism, Women worth less, Women worth half, Contract law))

> <span id="v283">283</span> If you be on a journey and cannot find a scribe, then a pledge in hand (shall suffice). And if one of you entrusteth to another let him who is trusted deliver up that which is entrusted to him (according to the pact between them) and let him observe his duty to Allah his Lord. Hide not testimony. He who hideth it, verily his heart is sinful. Allah is Aware of what you do.

((2:283, Contract law))

> <span id="v284">284</span> Unto Allah (belongeth) whatsoever is in the heavens and whatsoever is in the earth; and whether you make known what is in your minds or hide it, Allah will bring you to account for it. He will forgive whom He will and He will punish whom He will. Allah is Able to do all things.

((2:284, Allah, Allah almighty, Allah forgives))

## Forgiveness

> <span id="v285">285</span> The messenger believes in that which has been revealed to him from his Lord and (so do) believers. Each one believes in Allah and His angels and His scriptures and His messengers - We make no distinction between any of His messengers - and they say: We hear, and we obey. (Grant us) your forgiveness, our Lord. Unto you is the journeying.

This verse claims that Muhammad and all Muslims **believes in Allah and His angels and His scriptures and His messengers**. However the Quran contradicts these scriptures and prophets. And they reject the Quran. [See the Islamic dilemma for more information.](/islamic-dilemma)

((2:285, Baseless belief, Affirming Bible, Angels, Prophets))

> <span id="v286">286</span> Allah tasks not a soul beyond its scope. For it (is only) that which it has earned, and against it (only) that which it has deserved. Our Lord! Condemn us not if we forget, or miss the mark! Our Lord! Lay not on us such a burden as you didst lay on those before us! Our Lord! Impose not on us that which we have not the strength to bear! Pardon us, absolve us and have mercy on us, Thou, our Protector, and give us victory over the disbelieving folk.

**Allah tasks not a soul beyond its scope** but he sure requires everything up to that

**Our Lord! Condemn us not if we forget, or miss the mark!** That Muslims have to beg their god to not punish them with tyrannical requirements says a lot. Being a Muslim is indeed a most pitiable situation.

The violent and adversarial nature of Islam shows up everywhere. How could any religion even ask such a thing as **and give us victory over the disbelieving folk** unless it's god is evil?

((2:286, Works-righteousness, Unreasonable demands, Violence, Fighting unbelievers, Jihad))