---
layout: surah
title: Surah 3
search: true
permalink: /quran/3/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> Alim. Lam. Mim.

> <span id="v2">2</span> Allah! There is no God save Him, the Alive, the Eternal.

> <span id="v3">3</span> He has revealed to you (Muhammad) the Scripture with truth, confirming that which was (revealed) before it, even as He revealed the Torah and the Gospel.

> <span id="v4">4</span> Aforetime, for a guidance to mankind; and has revealed the Criterion (of right and wrong). See! those who disbelieve the revelations of Allah, theirs will be a heavy doom. Allah is Mighty, Able to Requite (the wrong).

> <span id="v5">5</span> See! nothing in the earth or in the heavens is hidden from Allah.

> <span id="v6">6</span> He it is Who fashioneth you in the wombs as pleaseth Him. There is no God save Him, the Almighty, the Wise.

> <span id="v7">7</span> He it is Who has revealed to you (Muhammad) the Scripture wherein are clear revelations - they are the substance of the Book - and others (which are) allegorical. But those in whose hearts is doubt pursue, forsooth, that which is allegorical seeking (to cause) dissension by seeking to explain it. None knows its explanation save Allah. And those who are of sound instruction say: We believe therein; the whole is from our Lord; but only men of understanding really heed.

> <span id="v8">8</span> Our Lord! Cause not our hearts to stray after You hast guided us, and bestow upon us mercy from your Presence. See! Thou, only Thou, are the Bestower.

> <span id="v9">9</span> Our Lord! See! it is You Who gatherest mankind together to a Day of which there is no doubt. See! Allah faileth not to keep the tryst.

> <span id="v10">10</span> (On that Day) neither the riches nor the progeny of those who disbelieve will aught avail them with Allah. They will be fuel for Fire.

> <span id="v11">11</span> Like Pharaoh's folk and those who were before them, they disbelieved Our revelations and so Allah seized them for their sins. And Allah is severe in punishment.

> <span id="v12">12</span> Say (O Muhammad) to those who disbelieve: Ye shall be overcome and gathered to Hell, an evil resting-place.

> <span id="v13">13</span> There was a token for you in two hosts which met: one army fighting in the way of Allah, and another disbelieving, whom they saw as twice their number, clearly, with their very eyes. Thus Allah strengtheneth with His succour whom He will. See! herein verily is a lesson for those who have eyes.

> <span id="v14">14</span> Beautified for mankind is love of the joys (that come) from women and offspring; and stored-up heaps of gold and silver, and horses branded (with their mark), and cattle and land. That is comfort of the life of the world. Allah! With Him is a more excellent abode.

> <span id="v15">15</span> Say: Shall I inform you of something better than that ? For those who keep from evil, with their Lord, are Gardens underneath which rivers flow wherein they will abide, and pure companions, and contentment from Allah. Allah is Seer of His bondmen,

> <span id="v16">16</span> Those who say: Our Lord! See! we believe. So forgive us our sins and guard us from the punishment of Fire;

> <span id="v17">17</span> The steadfast, and the truthful, and the obedient, those who spend (and hoard not), those who pray for pardon in the watches of the night.

> <span id="v18">18</span> Allah (Himself) is Witness that there is no God save Him. And the angels and the men of learning (too are witness). Maintaining His creation in justice, there is no God save Him the Almighty, the Wise.

> <span id="v19">19</span> See! religion with Allah (is) the Surrender (to His Will and Guidance). Those who (formerly) received the Scripture differed only after knowledge came to them, through transgression among themselves. Whoso disbelieveth the revelations of Allah (will find that) see! Allah is swift at reckoning.

> <span id="v20">20</span> And if they argue with you, (O Muhammad), say: I have surrendered my purpose to Allah and (so have) those who follow me. And say to those who have received the Scripture and those who read not: Have you (too) surrendered ? If they surrender, then truly they are rightly guided, and if they turn away, then it is your duty only to convey the message (unto them). Allah is Seer of (His) bondmen.

> <span id="v21">21</span> See! those who disbelieve the revelations of Allah, and slay the prophets wrongfully, and slay those of mankind who enjoin equity: promise them a painful doom.

> <span id="v22">22</span> Those are they whose works have failed in the world and the Hereafter; and they have no helpers.

> <span id="v23">23</span> Have you not seen how those who have received a portion of the Scripture invoke the Scripture of Allah (in their disputes) that it may judge between them; then a faction of them turn away, being opposed (to it) ?

> <span id="v24">24</span> That is because they say: The Fire will not touch us save for a certain number of days. That which they used to invent has deceived them regarding their religion.

> <span id="v25">25</span> How (will it be with them) when We have brought them all together to a Day of which there is no doubt, when every soul will be paid in full what it has earned, and they will not be wronged.

> <span id="v26">26</span> Say: O Allah! Owner of Sovereignty! You givest sovereignty to whom You wilt, and You withdrawest sovereignty from whom You wilt. You exaltest whom You wilt, and You abasest whom You wilt. In your hand is the good. See! You are Able to do all things.

> <span id="v27">27</span> You causest the night to pass into the day, and You causest the day to pass into the night. And You bringest forth the living from the dead, and You bringest forth the dead from the living. And You givest sustenance to whom You choosest, without stint.

> <span id="v28">28</span> Let not the believers take disbelievers for their friends in preference to believers. Whoso does that has no connection with Allah unless (it be) that you but guard yourselves against them, taking (as it were) security. Allah biddeth you beware (only) of Himself. Unto Allah is the journeying.

> <span id="v29">29</span> Say, (O Muhammad): Whether you hide that which is in your breasts or reveal it, Allah knows it. He knows that which is in the heavens and that which is in the earth, and Allah is Able to do all things.

> <span id="v30">30</span> On the Day when every soul will find itself confronted with all that it has done of good and all that it has done of evil (every soul) will long that there might be a mighty space of distance between it and that (evil). Allah biddeth you beware of Him. And Allah is Full of Pity for (His) bondmen.

> <span id="v31">31</span> Say, (O Muhammad, to mankind): If you love Allah, follow me; Allah will love you and forgive you your sins. Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v32">32</span> Say: Obey Allah and the messenger. But if they turn away, see! Allah loveth not the disbelievers (in His guidance).

> <span id="v33">33</span> See! Allah preferred Adam and Noah and the Family of Abraham and the Family of 'Imran above (all His) creatures.

> <span id="v34">34</span> They were descendants one of another. Allah is Hearer, Knower.

> <span id="v35">35</span> (Remember) when the wife of 'Imran said: My Lord! I have vowed to you that which is in my belly as a consecrated (offering). Accept it from me. See! Thou, only Thou, are the Hearer, the Knower!

> <span id="v36">36</span> And when she was delivered she said: My Lord! See! I am delivered of a female - Allah knew best of what she was delivered - the male is not as the female; and see! I have named her Mary, and see! I crave your protection for her and for her offspring from Satan the outcast.

> <span id="v37">37</span> And her Lord accepted her with full acceptance and vouchsafed to her a goodly growth; and made Zachariah her guardian. Whenever Zachariah went into the sanctuary where she was, he found that she had food. He said: O Mary! Whence cometh to you this (food) ? She answered: It is from Allah. Allah giveth without stint to whom He will.

> <span id="v38">38</span> Then Zachariah prayed to his Lord and said: My Lord! Bestow upon me of your bounty goodly offspring. See! You are the Hearer of Prayer.

> <span id="v39">39</span> And the angels called to him as he stood praying in the sanctuary: Allah giveth you glad tidings of (a son whose name is) John, (who cometh) to confirm a word from Allah lordly, chaste, a prophet of the righteous.

> <span id="v40">40</span> He said: My Lord! How can I have a son when age has overtaken me already and my wife is barren ? (The angel) answered: So (it will be). Allah does what He will.

> <span id="v41">41</span> He said: My Lord! Appoint a token for me. (The angel) said: The token to you (shall be) that you shalt not speak to mankind three days except by signs. Remember your Lord much, and praise (Him) in the early hours of night and morning.

> <span id="v42">42</span> And when the angels said: O Mary! See! Allah has chosen you and made you pure, and has preferred you above (all) the women of creation.

> <span id="v43">43</span> O Mary! Be obedient to your Lord, prostrate yourself and bow with those who bow (in worship).

> <span id="v44">44</span> This is of the tidings of things hidden. We reveal it to you (Muhammad). You wast not present with them when they threw their pens (to know) which of them should be the guardian of Mary, nor wast you present with them when they quarrelled (thereupon).

> <span id="v45">45</span> (And remember) when the angels said: O Mary! See! Allah giveth you glad tidings of a word from him, whose name is the Messiah, Jesus, son of Mary, illustrious in the world and the Hereafter, and one of those brought near (unto Allah).

> <span id="v46">46</span> He will speak to mankind in his cradle and in his manhood, and he is of the righteous.

> <span id="v47">47</span> She said: My Lord! How can I have a child when no mortal has touched me ? He said: So (it will be). Allah created what He will. If He decreeth a thing, He said to it only: Be! and it is.

> <span id="v48">48</span> And He will teach him the Scripture and wisdom, and the Torah and the Gospel,

> <span id="v49">49</span> And will make him a messenger to the Children of Israel, (saying): See! I come to you with a sign from your Lord. See! I fashion for you out of clay the likeness of a bird, and I breathe into it and it is a bird, by Allah's leave. I heal him who was born blind, and the leper, and I raise the dead, by Allah's leave. And I announce to you what you eat and what you store up in your houses. See! herein verily is a portent for you, if you are to be believers.

> <span id="v50">50</span> And (I come) confirming that which was before me of the Torah, and to make lawful some of that which was forbidden to you. I come to you with a sign from your Lord, so keep your duty to Allah and obey me.

> <span id="v51">51</span> See! Allah is my Lord and your Lord, so worship Him. That is a straight path.

> <span id="v52">52</span> But when Jesus became conscious of their disbelief, he cried: Who will be my helpers in the cause of Allah ? The disciples said: We will be Allah's helpers. We believe in Allah, and bear you witness that we have surrendered (unto Him).

> <span id="v53">53</span> Our Lord! We believe in that which You hast revealed and we follow him whom You hast sent. Enrol us among those who witness (to the truth).

> <span id="v54">54</span> And they (the disbelievers) schemed, and Allah schemed (against them): and Allah is the best of schemers.

((3:54, Allah - deceiver, Allah - liar))

> <span id="v55">55</span> (And remember) when Allah said: O Jesus! See! I am gathering you and causing you to ascend to Me, and am cleansing you of those who disbelieve and am setting those who follow you above those who disbelieve until the Day of Resurrection. Then to Me you will (all) return, and I shall judge between you as to that wherein you used to differ.

> <span id="v56">56</span> As for those who disbelieve I shall chastise them with a heavy chastisement in the world and the Hereafter; and they will have no helpers.

> <span id="v57">57</span> And as for those who believe and do good works, He will pay them their wages in full. Allah loveth not wrong-doers.

> <span id="v58">58</span> This (which) We recite to you is a revelation and a wise reminder.

> <span id="v59">59</span> See! the likeness of Jesus with Allah is as the likeness of Adam. He created him of dust, then He said to him: Be! and he is.

> <span id="v60">60</span> (This is) the truth from your Lord (O Muhammad), so be not you of those who waver.

> <span id="v61">61</span> And whoso disputeth with you concerning him, after the knowledge which has come to you, say (unto him): Come! We will summon our sons and your sons, and our women and your women, and ourselves and yourselves, then we will pray humbly (to our Lord) and (solemnly) invoke the curse of Allah upon those who lie.

> <span id="v62">62</span> See! This verily is the true narrative. There is no God save Allah, and see! Allah, He verily is, is the Mighty, the Wise.

> <span id="v63">63</span> And if they turn away, then see! Allah is Aware of (who are) the corrupters.

> <span id="v64">64</span> Say: O People of the Scripture! Come to an agreement between us and you: that we shall worship none but Allah, and that we shall ascribe no partner to Him, and that none of us shall take others for lords beside Allah. And if they turn away, then say: Bear witness that we are they who have surrendered (unto Him).

> <span id="v65">65</span> O People of the Scripture! Why will you argue about Abraham, when the Torah and the Gospel were not revealed till after him ? Have you then no sense ?

> <span id="v66">66</span> See! you are those who argue about that whereof you have some knowledge: Why then argue you concerning that whereof you have no knowledge ? Allah knoweth. Ye know not.

> <span id="v67">67</span> Abraham was not a Jew, nor yet a Christian; but he was an upright man who had surrendered (to Allah), and he was not of the idolaters.

> <span id="v68">68</span> See! those of mankind who have the best claim to Abraham are those who followed him, and this Prophet and those who believe (with him); and Allah is the Protecting Guardian of the believers.

> <span id="v69">69</span> A party of the People of the Scripture long to make you go astray; and they make none to go astray except themselves, but they perceive not.

> <span id="v70">70</span> O People of the Scripture! Why disbelieve you in the revelations of Allah, when you (yourselves) bear witness (to their truth) ?

> <span id="v71">71</span> O People of the Scripture! Why confound you truth with falsehood and knowingly conceal the truth ?

> <span id="v72">72</span> And a party of the People of the Scripture say: Believe in that which has been revealed to those who believe at the opening of the day, and disbelieve at the end thereof, in order that they may return;

> <span id="v73">73</span> And believe not save in one who followeth your religion - Say (O Muhammad): See! the guidance is Allah's Guidance - that anyone is given the like of that which was given to you or that they may argue with you in the presence of their Lord. Say (O Muhammad): See! the bounty is in Allah's hand. He bestoweth it on whom He will. Allah is All-Embracing, All-Knowing.

> <span id="v74">74</span> He selecteth for His mercy whom He will. Allah is of Infinite Bounty.

> <span id="v75">75</span> Among the People of the Scripture there is he who, if you trust him with a weight of treasure, will return it to you. And among them there is he who, if you trust him with a piece of gold, will not return it to you unless you keep standing over him. That is because they say: We have no duty to the Gentiles. They speak a lie concerning Allah knowingly.

> <span id="v76">76</span> No, but (the chosen of Allah is) he who fulfilleth his pledge and wardeth off (evil); for see! Allah loveth those who ward off (evil).

> <span id="v77">77</span> See! those who purchase a small gain at the cost of Allah's covenant and their oaths, they have no portion in the Hereafter. Allah will neither speak to them nor look upon them on the Day of Resurrection, nor will He make them grow. Theirs will be a painful doom.

> <span id="v78">78</span> And see! there is a party of them who distort the Scripture with their tongues, that you may think that what they say is from the Scripture, when it is not from the Scripture. And they say: It is from Allah, when it is not from Allah; and they speak a lie concerning Allah knowingly.

> <span id="v79">79</span> It is not (possible) for any human being to whom Allah had given the Scripture and wisdom and the prophethood that he should afterwards have said to mankind: Be slaves of me instead of Allah; but (what he said was): Be you faithful servants of the Lord by virtue of your constant teaching of the Scripture and of your constant study thereof.

> <span id="v80">80</span> And he commanded you not that you should take the angels and the prophets for lords. Would he command you to disbelieve after you had surrendered (to Allah) ?

> <span id="v81">81</span> When Allah made (His) covenant with the prophets, (He said): Behold that which I have given you of the Scripture and knowledge. And afterward there will come to you a messenger, confirming that which you possess. Ye shall believe in him and you shall help him. He said: Do you agree, and will you take up My burden (which I lay upon you) in this (matter) ? They answered: We agree. He said: Then bear you witness. I will be a witness with you.

> <span id="v82">82</span> Then whosoever after this shall turn away: they will be miscreants.

> <span id="v83">83</span> Seek they other than the religion of Allah, when to Him submitteth whosoever is in the heavens and the earth, willingly or unwillingly, and to Him they will be returned.

> <span id="v84">84</span> Say (O Muhammad): We believe in Allah and that which is revealed to us and that which was revealed to Abraham and Ishmael and Isaac and Jacob and the tribes, and that which was vouchsafed to Moses and Jesus and the prophets from their Lord. We make no distinction between any of them, and to Him we have surrendered.

> <span id="v85">85</span> And whoso seeketh as religion other than the Surrender (to Allah) it will not be accepted from him, and he will be a loser in the Hereafter.

> <span id="v86">86</span> How shall Allah guide a people who disbelieved after their belief and (after) they bore witness that the messenger is true and after clear proofs (of Allah's Sovereignty) had come to them. And Allah guideth not wrongdoing folk.

> <span id="v87">87</span> As for such, their guerdon is that on them rests the curse of Allah and of angels and of men combined.

> <span id="v88">88</span> They will abide therein. Their doom will not be lightened, neither will they be reprieved;

> <span id="v89">89</span> Save those who afterward repent and do right. See! Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v90">90</span> See! those who disbelieve after their (profession of) belief, and afterward grow violent in disbelief: their repentance will not be accepted. And such are those who are astray.

> <span id="v91">91</span> See! those who disbelieve, and die in disbelief, the (whole) earth full of gold would not be accepted from such an one if it were offered as a ransom (for his soul). Theirs will be a painful doom and they will have no helpers.

> <span id="v92">92</span> Ye will not attain to piety until you spend of that which you love. And whatsoever you spend, Allah is Aware thereof.

> <span id="v93">93</span> All food was lawful to the Children of Israel, save that which Israel forbade himself, (in days) before the Torah was revealed. Say: Produce the Torah and read it (unto us) if you are truthful.

> <span id="v94">94</span> And whoever shall invent a falsehood after that concerning Allah, such will be wrong-doers.

> <span id="v95">95</span> Say: Allah speaketh truth. So follow the religion of Abraham, the upright. He was not of the idolaters.

> <span id="v96">96</span> See! the first Sanctuary appointed for mankind was that at Becca, a blessed place, a guidance to the peoples;

> <span id="v97">97</span> Wherein are plain memorials (of Allah's guidance); the place where Abraham stood up to pray; and whosoever entereth it is safe. And pilgrimage to the House is a duty to Allah for mankind, for him who can find a way thither. As for him who disbelieveth, (let him know that) see! Allah is Independent of (all) creatures.

> <span id="v98">98</span> Say: O People of the Scripture! Why disbelieve you in the revelations of Allah, when Allah (Himself) is Witness of what you do ?

> <span id="v99">99</span> Say: O People of the Scripture! Why drive you back believers from the way of Allah, seeking to make it crooked, when you are witnesses (to Allah's guidance) ? Allah is not unaware of what you do.

> <span id="v100">100</span> O you who believe! If you obey a party of those who have received the Scripture they will make you disbelievers after your belief.

> <span id="v101">101</span> How can you disbelieve, when it is you to whom Allah's revelations are recited, and His messenger is in your midst ? He who holdeth fast to Allah, he indeed is guided to a right path.

> <span id="v102">102</span> O you who believe! Observe your duty to Allah with right observance, and die not save as those who have surrendered (unto Him)

> <span id="v103">103</span> And hold fast, all of you together, to the cable of Allah, and do not separate. And remember Allah's favour to you: How you were enemies and He made friendship between your hearts so that you became as brothers by His grace; and (how) you were upon the brink of an abyss of fire, and He did save you from it. Thus Allah maketh clear His revelations to you, that haply you may be guided,

> <span id="v104">104</span> And there may spring from you a nation who invite to goodness, and enjoin right conduct and forbid indecency. Such are they who are successful.

> <span id="v105">105</span> And be you not as those who separated and disputed after the clear proofs had come to them. For such there is an awful doom,

> <span id="v106">106</span> On the Day when (some) faces will be whitened and (some) faces will be blackened; and as for those whose faces have been blackened, it will be said to them: Disbelieved you after your (profession of) belief ? Then taste the punishment for that you disbelieved.

> <span id="v107">107</span> And as for those whose faces have been whitened, in the mercy of Allah they dwell for ever.

> <span id="v108">108</span> These are revelations of Allah. We recite them to you in truth. Allah willeth no injustice to (His) creatures.

> <span id="v109">109</span> Unto Allah belongeth whatsoever is in the heavens and whatsoever is in the earth; and to Allah all things are returned.

> <span id="v110">110</span> Ye are the best community that has been raised up for mankind. Ye enjoin right conduct and forbid indecency; and you believe in Allah. And if the People of the Scripture had believed it had been better for them. Some of them are believers; but most of them are evil-livers.

> <span id="v111">111</span> They will not harm you save a trifling hurt, and if they fight against you they will turn and flee. And afterward they will not be helped.

> <span id="v112">112</span> Ignominy shall be their portion wheresoever they are found save (where they grasp) a rope from Allah and a rope from men. They have incurred anger from their Lord, and wretchedness is laid upon them. That is because they used to disbelieve the revelations of Allah, and slew the prophets wrongfully. That is because they were rebellious and used to transgress.

> <span id="v113">113</span> They are not all alike. Of the People of the Scripture there is a staunch community who recite the revelations of Allah in the night season, falling prostrate (before Him).

> <span id="v114">114</span> They believe in Allah and the Last Day, and enjoin right conduct and forbid indecency, and vie one with another in good works. These are of the righteous.

> <span id="v115">115</span> And whatever good they do, they will not be denied the meed thereof. Allah is Aware of those who ward off (evil).

> <span id="v116">116</span> See! the riches and the progeny of those who disbelieve will not avail them aught against Allah; and such are rightful owners of the Fire. They will abide therein.

> <span id="v117">117</span> The likeness of that which they spend in this life of the world is as the likeness of a biting, icy wind which smiteth the harvest of a people who have wronged themselves, and devastateth it. Allah wronged them not, but they do wrong themselves.

> <span id="v118">118</span> O you who believe! Take not for intimates others than your own folk, who would spare no pains to ruin you; they love to hamper you. Hatred is revealed by (the utterance of) their mouths, but that which their breasts hide is greater. We have made plain for you the revelations if you will understand.

> <span id="v119">119</span> See! you are those who love them though they love you not, and you believe in all the Scripture. When they fall in with you they say: We believe; but when they go apart they bite their finger-tips at you, for rage. Say: Perish in your rage! See! Allah is Aware of what is hidden in (your) breasts.

> <span id="v120">120</span> If a lucky chance befall you, it is evil to them, and if disaster strike you they rejoice thereat. But if you persevere and keep from evil their guile will never harm you. See! Allah is Surrounding what they do.

> <span id="v121">121</span> And when you settedst forth at daybreak from your housefolk to assign to the believers their positions for the battle, Allah was Hearer, Knower.

> <span id="v122">122</span> When two parties of you almost fell away, and Allah was their Protecting Friend. In Allah let believers put their trust.

> <span id="v123">123</span> Allah had already given you the victory at Badr, when you were contemptible. So observe your duty to Allah in order that you may be thankful.

> <span id="v124">124</span> When you didst say to the believers: Is it not sufficient for you that your Lord should support you with three thousand angels sent down (to your help) ?

> <span id="v125">125</span> No, but if you persevere, and keep from evil, and (the enemy) attack you suddenly, your Lord will help you with five thousand angels sweeping on.

> <span id="v126">126</span> Allah ordained this only as a message of good cheer for you, and that thereby your hearts might be at rest - Victory cometh only from Allah, the Mighty, the Wise -

> <span id="v127">127</span> That He may cut off a part of those who disbelieve, or overwhelm them so that they retire, frustrated.

> <span id="v128">128</span> It is no concern at all of you (Muhammad) whether He relent toward them or punish them; for they are evil-doers.

> <span id="v129">129</span> Unto Allah belongeth whatsoever is in the heavens and whatsoever is in the earth. He forgiveth whom He will, and punisheth whom He will. Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v130">130</span> O you who believe! Devour not usury, doubling and quadrupling (the sum lent). Observe your duty to Allah, that you may be successful.

> <span id="v131">131</span> And ward off (from yourselves) the Fire prepared for disbelievers.

> <span id="v132">132</span> And obey Allah and the messenger, that you may find mercy.

> <span id="v133">133</span> And vie one with another for forgiveness from your Lord, and for a paradise as wide as are the heavens and the earth, prepared for those who ward off (evil);

> <span id="v134">134</span> Those who spend (of that which Allah has given them) in ease and in adversity, those who control their wrath and are forgiving toward mankind; Allah loveth the good;

> <span id="v135">135</span> And those who, when they do an evil thing or wrong themselves, remember Allah and implore forgiveness for their sins - Who forgiveth sins save Allah only ? - and will not knowingly repeat (the wrong) they did.

> <span id="v136">136</span> The reward of such will be forgiveness from their Lord, and Gardens underneath which rivers flow, wherein they will abide for ever - a bountiful reward for workers!

> <span id="v137">137</span> Systems have passed away before you. Do but travel in the land and see the nature of the consequence for those who did deny (the messengers).

> <span id="v138">138</span> This is a declaration for mankind, a guidance and an admonition to those who ward off (evil)

> <span id="v139">139</span> Faint not nor grieve, for you will overcome them if you are (indeed) believers.

> <span id="v140">140</span> If you have received a blow, the (disbelieving) people have received a blow the like thereof. These are (only) the vicissitudes which We cause to follow one another for mankind, to the end that Allah may know those who believe and may choose witnesses from among you; and Allah loveth not wrong-doers.

> <span id="v141">141</span> And that Allah may prove those who believe, and may blight the disbelievers.

> <span id="v142">142</span> Or deemed you that you would enter paradise while yet Allah knows not those of you who really strive, nor knows those (of you) who are steadfast ?

> <span id="v143">143</span> And verily you used to wish for death before you met it (in the field). Now you have seen it with your eyes!

> <span id="v144">144</span> Muhammad is but a messenger, messengers (the like of whom) have passed away before him. Will it be that, when he dieth or is slain, you will turn back on your heels ? He who turneth back on his heels does no hurt to Allah, and Allah will reward the thankful.

> <span id="v145">145</span> No soul can ever die except by Allah's leave and at a term appointed. Whoso desireth the reward of the world, We bestow on him thereof; and whoso desireth the reward of the Hereafter, We bestow on him thereof. We shall reward the thankful.

> <span id="v146">146</span> And with how many a prophet have there been a number of devoted men who fought (beside him). They quailed not for aught that befell them in the way of Allah, nor did they weaken, nor were they brought low. Allah loveth the steadfast.

> <span id="v147">147</span> Their cry was only that they said: Our Lord! forgive us for our sins and wasted efforts, make our foothold sure, and give us victory over the disbelieving folk.

> <span id="v148">148</span> So Allah gave them the reward of the world and the good reward of the Hereafter. Allah loveth those whose deeds are good.

> <span id="v149">149</span> O you who believe! if you obey those who disbelieve, they will make you turn back on your heels, and you turn back as losers.

> <span id="v150">150</span> But Allah is your Protector, and He is the Best of Helpers.

> <span id="v151">151</span> We shall cast terror into the hearts of those who disbelieve because they ascribe to Allah partners, for which no warrant has been revealed. Their habitation is the Fire, and hapless the abode of the wrong-doers.

> <span id="v152">152</span> Allah verily made good His promise to you when you routed them by His leave, until (the moment) when your courage failed you, and you disagreed about the order and you disobeyed, after He had shown you that for which you long. Some of you desired the world, and some of you desired the Hereafter. Therefore He made you flee from them, that He might try you. Yet now He has forgiven you. Allah is a Lord of Kindness to believers.

> <span id="v153">153</span> When you climbed (the hill) and paid no heed to anyone, while the messenger, in your rear, was calling you (to fight). Therefore He rewarded you grief for (his) grief, that (He might teach) you not to sorrow either for that which you missed or for that which befell you. Allah is Informed of what you do.

> <span id="v154">154</span> Then, after grief, He sent down security for you. As slumber did it overcome a party of you, while (the other) party, who were anxious on their own account, thought wrongly of Allah, the thought of ignorance. They said: Have we any part in the cause ? Say (O Muhammad): The cause belongeth wholly to Allah. They hide within themselves (a thought) which they reveal not to you, saying: Had we had any part in the cause we should not have been slain here. Say: Even though you had been in your houses, those appointed to be slain would have gone forth to the places where they were to lie. (All this has been) in order that Allah might try what is in your breasts and prove what is in your hearts. Allah is Aware of what is hidden in the breasts (of men).

> <span id="v155">155</span> See! those of you who turned back on the day when the two hosts met, Satan alone it was who caused them to backslide, because of some of that which they have earned. Now Allah has forgiven them. See! Allah is Forgiving, Clement.

> <span id="v156">156</span> O you who believe! Be not as those who disbelieved and said of their brethren who went abroad in the land or were fighting in the field: If they had been (here) with us they would not have died or been killed: that Allah may make it anguish in their hearts. Allah giveth life and causeth death; and Allah is Seer of what you do.

> <span id="v157">157</span> And what though you be slain in Allah's way or die therein ? Surely pardon from Allah and mercy are better than all that they amass.

> <span id="v158">158</span> What though you be slain or die, when to Allah you are gathered ?

> <span id="v159">159</span> It was by the mercy of Allah that you wast lenient with them (O Muhammad), for if you hadst been stern and fierce of heart they would have dispersed from round about you. So pardon them and ask forgiveness for them and consult with them upon the conduct of affairs. And when you are resolved, then put your trust in Allah. See! Allah loveth those who put their trust (in Him).

> <span id="v160">160</span> If Allah is your helper none can overcome you, and if He withdraw His help from you, who is there who can help you after Him ? In Allah let believers put their trust.

> <span id="v161">161</span> It is not for any prophet to embezzle. Whoso embezzleth will bring what he embezzled with him on the Day of Resurrection. Then every soul will be paid in full what it has earned; and they will not be wronged.

> <span id="v162">162</span> Is one who followeth the pleasure of Allah as one who has earned condemnation from Allah, whose habitation is the Fire, a hapless journey's end ?

> <span id="v163">163</span> There are degrees (of grace and reprobation) with Allah, and Allah is Seer of what they do.

> <span id="v164">164</span> Allah verily has shown grace to the believers by sending to them a messenger of their own who reciteth to them His revelations, and causeth them to grow, and teaches them the Scripture and wisdom; although before (he came to them) they were in flagrant error.

> <span id="v165">165</span> And was it so, when a disaster smote you, though you had smitten (them with a disaster) twice (as great), that you said: How is this ? Say (unto them, O Muhammad): It is from yourselves. See! Allah is Able to do all things.

> <span id="v166">166</span> That which befell you, on the day when the two armies met, was by permission of Allah; that He might know the true believers;

> <span id="v167">167</span> And that He might know the hypocrites, to whom it was said: Come, fight in the way of Allah, or defend yourselves. They answered: If we knew aught of fighting we would follow you. On that day they were nearer disbelief than faith. They utter with their mouths a thing which is not in their hearts. Allah is Best Aware of what they hide.

> <span id="v168">168</span> Those who, while they sat at home, said of their brethren (who were fighting for the cause of Allah): If they had been guided by us they would not have been slain. Say (unto them, O Muhammad): Then avert death from yourselves if you are truthful.

> <span id="v169">169</span> Think not of those, who are slain in the way of Allah, as dead. No, they are living. With their Lord they have provision.

> <span id="v170">170</span> Jubilant (are they) because of that which Allah has bestowed upon them of His bounty, rejoicing for the sake of those who have not joined them but are left behind: That there shall no fear come upon them neither shall they grieve.

> <span id="v171">171</span> They rejoice because of favour from Allah and kindness, and that Allah wasteth not the wage of the believers.

> <span id="v172">172</span> As for those who heard the call of Allah and His messenger after the harm befell them (in the fight); for such of them as do right and ward off (evil), there is great reward.

> <span id="v173">173</span> Those to whom men said: See! the people have gathered against you, therefor fear them. (The threat of danger) but increased the faith of them and they cried: Allah is Sufficient for us! Most Excellent is He in Whom we trust!

> <span id="v174">174</span> So they returned with grace and favour from Allah, and no harm touched them. They followed the good pleasure of Allah, and Allah is of Infinite Bounty.

> <span id="v175">175</span> It is only the devil who would make (men) fear his partisans. Fear them not; fear Me, if you are true believers.

> <span id="v176">176</span> Let not their conduct grieve you, who run easily to disbelief, for see! they injure Allah not at all. It is Allah's Will to assign them no portion in the Hereafter, and theirs will be an awful doom.

> <span id="v177">177</span> Those who purchase disbelief at the price of faith harm Allah not at all, but theirs will be a painful doom.

> <span id="v178">178</span> And let not those who disbelieve imagine that the rein We give them bodeth good to their souls. We only give them rein that they may grow in sinfulness. And theirs will be a shameful doom.

> <span id="v179">179</span> It is not (the purpose) of Allah to leave you in your present state till He shall separate the wicked from the good. And it is not (the purpose of) Allah to let you know the Unseen. But Allah chooseth of His messengers whom He will, (to receive knowledge thereof). So believe in Allah and His messengers. If you believe and ward off (evil), yours will be a vast reward.

> <span id="v180">180</span> And let not those who hoard up that which Allah has bestowed upon them of His bounty think that it is better for them. No, it is worse for them. That which they hoard will be their collar on the Day of Resurrection. Allah's is the heritage of the heavens and the earth, and Allah is Informed of what you do.

> <span id="v181">181</span> Verily Allah heard the saying of those who said, (when asked for contributions to the war): "Allah, forsooth, is poor, and we are rich!" We shall record their saying with their slaying of the prophets wrongfully and We shall say: Taste you the punishment of burning!

> <span id="v182">182</span> This is on account of that which your own hands have sent before (you to the judgment). Allah is no oppressor of (His) bondmen.

> <span id="v183">183</span> (The same are) those who say: See! Allah has charged us that we believe not in any messenger until he bring us an offering which fire (from heaven) shall devour. Say (unto them, O Muhammad): Messengers came to you before me with miracles, and with that (very miracle) which you describe. Why then did you slay them ? (Answer that) if you are truthful!

> <span id="v184">184</span> And if they deny you, even so did they deny messengers who were before you, who came with miracles and with the Psalms and with the Scripture giving light.

> <span id="v185">185</span> Every soul will taste of death. And you will be paid on the Day of Resurrection only that which you have fairly earned. Whoso is removed from the Fire and is made to enter paradise, he indeed is triumphant. The life of this world is but comfort of illusion.

> <span id="v186">186</span> Assuredly you will be tried in your property and in your persons, and you will hear much wrong from those who were given the Scripture before you, and from the idolaters. But if you persevere and ward off (evil), then that is of the steadfast heart of things.

> <span id="v187">187</span> And (remember) when Allah laid a charge on those who had received the Scripture (He said): Ye are to expound it to mankind and not to hide it. But they flung it behind their backs and bought thereby a little gain. Verily evil is that which they have gained thereby.

> <span id="v188">188</span> Think not that those who exult in what they have given, and love to be praised for what they have not done - Think not, they are in safety from the doom. A painful doom is theirs.

> <span id="v189">189</span> Unto Allah belongeth the Sovereignty of the heavens and the earth. Allah is Able to do all things.

> <span id="v190">190</span> See! In the creation of the heavens and the earth and (in) the difference of night and day are tokens (of His Sovereignty) for men of understanding,

> <span id="v191">191</span> Such as remember Allah, standing, sitting, and reclining, and consider the creation of the heavens and the earth, (and say): Our Lord! You createdst not this in vain. Glory be to Thee! Preserve us from the doom of Fire.

> <span id="v192">192</span> Our Lord! Whom You causest to enter the Fire: him indeed You hast confounded. For evil-doers there will be no helpers.

> <span id="v193">193</span> Our Lord! See! we have heard a crier calling to Faith: "Believe you in your Lord!" So we believed. Our Lord! Therefore forgive us our sins, and remit from us our evil deeds, and make us die the death of the righteous.

> <span id="v194">194</span> Our Lord! And give us that which You hast promised to us by your messengers. Confound us not upon the Day of Resurrection. See! You breakest not the tryst.

> <span id="v195">195</span> And their Lord has heard them (and He said): See! I suffer not the work of any worker, male or female, to be lost. Ye proceed one from another. So those who fled and were driven forth from their homes and suffered damage for My cause, and fought and were slain, verily I shall remit their evil deeds from them and verily I shall bring them into Gardens underneath which rivers flow - A reward from Allah. And with Allah is the fairest of rewards.

> <span id="v196">196</span> Let not the vicissitude (of the success) of those who disbelieve, in the land, deceive you (O Muhammad).

> <span id="v197">197</span> It is but a brief comfort. And afterward their habitation will be hell, an ill abode.

> <span id="v198">198</span> But those who keep their duty to their Lord, for them are Gardens underneath which rivers flow, wherein they will be safe for ever. A gift of welcome from their Lord. That which Allah has in store is better for the righteous.

> <span id="v199">199</span> And see! of the People of the Scripture there are some who believe in Allah and that which is revealed to you and that which was revealed to them, humbling themselves before Allah. They purchase not a trifling gain at the price of the revelations of Allah. Verily their reward is with their Lord. See! Allah is swift to take account.

> <span id="v200">200</span> O you who believe! Endure, outdo all others in endurance, be ready, and observe your duty to Allah, in order that you may succeed.
