---
layout: surah
title: Surah 4
search: true
permalink: /quran/4/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> O mankind! Be careful of your duty to your Lord Who created you from a single soul and from it created its mate and from them twain has spread abroad a multitude of men and women. Be careful of your duty toward Allah in Whom you claim (your rights) of one another, and toward the wombs (that bare you). See! Allah has been a watcher over you.

> <span id="v2">2</span> Give to orphans their wealth. Exchange not the good for the bad (in your management thereof) nor absorb their wealth into your own wealth. See! that would be a great sin.

> <span id="v3">3</span> And if you fear that you will not deal fairly by the orphans, marry of the women, who seem good to you, two or three or four; and if you fear that you cannot do justice (to so many) then one (only) or (the captives) that your right hands possess. Thus it is more likely that you will not do injustice.

> <span id="v4">4</span> And give to the women (whom you marry) free gift of their marriage portions; but if they of their own accord remit to you a part thereof, then you are welcome to absorb it (in your wealth).

> <span id="v5">5</span> Give not to the foolish (what is in) your (keeping of their) wealth, which Allah has given you to maintain; but feed and clothe them from it, and speak kindly to them.

> <span id="v6">6</span> Prove orphans till they reach the marriageable age; then, if you find them of sound judgment, deliver over to them their fortune; and devour it not by squandering and in haste lest they should grow up Whoso (of the guardians) is rich, let him abstain generously (from taking of the property of orphans); and whoso is poor let him take thereof in reason (for his guardianship). And when you deliver up their fortune to orphans, have (the transaction) witnessed in their presence. Allah sufficeth as a Reckoner.

> <span id="v7">7</span> Unto the men (of a family) belongs a share of that which parents and near kindred leave, and to the women a share of that which parents and near kindred leave, whether it be little or much - a legal share.

> <span id="v8">8</span> And when kinsfolk and orphans and the needy are present at the division (of the heritage), bestow on them therefrom and speak kindly to them.

> <span id="v9">9</span> And let those fear (in their behaviour toward orphans) who if they left behind them weak offspring would be afraid for them. So let them mind their duty to Allah, and speak justly.

> <span id="v10">10</span> See! Those who devour the wealth of orphans wrongfully, they do but swallow fire into their bellies, and they will be exposed to burning flame.

> <span id="v11">11</span> Allah chargeth you concerning (the provision for) your children: to the male the equivalent of the portion of two females, and if there be women more than two, then theirs is two-thirds of the inheritance, and if there be one (only) then the half. And to each of his parents a sixth of the inheritance, if he have a son; and if he have no son and his parents are his heirs, then to his mother appertaineth the third; and if he have brethren, then to his mother appertaineth the sixth, after any legacy he may have bequeathed, or debt (hath been paid). Your parents and your children: Ye know not which of them is nearer to you in usefulness. It is an injunction from Allah. See! Allah is Knower, Wise.

> <span id="v12">12</span> And to you belongs a half of that which your wives leave, if they have no child; but if they have a child then to you the fourth of that which they leave, afte r any legacy they may have bequeathed, or debt (they ma y have contracted, has been paid). And to them belon geth the fourth of that which you leave if you have no ch ild, but if you have a child then the eighth of that whi ch you leave, after any legacy you may have bequeathed, o r debt (ye may have contracted, has been paid). And if a man or a woman have a distant heir (having left neit her parent nor child), and he (or she) have a brother o r a sister (only on the mother's side) then to each of them twain (the brother and the sister) the sixth, and if they be more than two, then they shall be sharers in the third, after any legacy that may have been bequeat hed or debt (contracted) not injuring (the heirs by wil ling away more than a third of the heritage) has been

> <span id="v13">13</span> These are the limits (imposed by) Allah. Whoso obeyeth Allah and His messenger, He will make him enter Gardens underneath which rivers flow, where such will dwell for ever. That will be the great success.

> <span id="v14">14</span> And whoso disobeyeth Allah and His messenger and transgresseth His limits, He will make him enter Fire, where he will dwell for ever; his will be a shameful doom.

> <span id="v15">15</span> As for those of your women who are guilty of lewdness, call to witness four of you against them. And if they testify (to the truth of the allegation) then confine them to the houses until death take them or (until) Allah appoint for them a way (through new legislation).

> <span id="v16">16</span> And as for the two of you who are guilty thereof, punish them both. And if they repent and improve, then let them be. See! Allah is ever relenting, Merciful.

> <span id="v17">17</span> Forgiveness is only incumbent on Allah toward those who do evil in ignorance (and) then turn quickly (in repentance) to Allah. These are they toward whom Allah relenteth. Allah is ever Knower, Wise.

> <span id="v18">18</span> The forgiveness is not for those who do ill-deeds until, when death attendeth upon one of them, he said: See! I repent now; nor yet for those who die while they are disbelievers. For such We have prepared a painful doom.

> <span id="v19">19</span> O you who believe! It is not lawful for you forcibly to inherit the women (of your deceased kinsmen), nor (that) you should put constraint upon them that you may take away a part of that which you have given them, unless they be guilty of flagrant lewdness. But consort with them in kindness, for if you hate them it may happen that you hate a thing wherein Allah has placed much good.

> <span id="v20">20</span> And if you wish to exchange one wife for another and you have given to one of them a sum of money (however great), take nothing from it. Would you take it by the way of calumny and open wrong ?

> <span id="v21">21</span> How can you take it (back) after one of you has gone in to the other, and they have taken a strong pledge from you ?

> <span id="v22">22</span> And marry not those women whom your fathers married, except what has already happened (of that nature) in the past. See! it was ever lewdness and abomination, and an evil way.

> <span id="v23">23</span> Forbidden to you are your mothers, and your daughters, and your sisters, and your father's sisters, and your mother's sisters, and your brother's daughters and your sister's daughters, and your foster-mothers, and your foster-sisters, and your mothers-in-law, and your step-daughters who are under your protection (born) of your women to whom you have gone in - but if you have not gone in to them, then it is no sin for you (to marry their daughters) - and the wives of your sons who (spring) from your own loins. And (it is forbidden to you) that you should have two sisters together, except what has already happened (of that nature) in the past. See! Allah is ever Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v24">24</span> And all married women (are forbidden to you) save those (captives) whom your right hands possess. It is a decree of Allah for you. Lawful to you are all beyond those mentioned, so that you seek them with your wealth in honest wedlock, not debauchery. And those of whom you seek content (by marrying them), give to them their portions as a duty. And there is no sin for you in what you do by mutual agreement after the duty (hath been done). See! Allah is ever Knower, Wise.

> <span id="v25">25</span> And whoso is not able to afford to marry free, believing women, let them marry from the believing maids whom your right hands possess. Allah knows best (concerning) your faith. Ye (proceed) one from another; so wed them by permission of their folk, and give to them their portions in kindness, they being honest, not debauched nor of loose conduct. And if when they are honourably married they commit lewdness they shall incur the half of the punishment (prescribed) for free women (in that case). This is for him among you who fears to commit sin. But to have patience would be better for you. Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v26">26</span> Allah would explain to you and guide you by the examples of those who were before you, and would turn to you in mercy. Allah is Knower, Wise.

> <span id="v27">27</span> And Allah would turn to you in mercy; but those who follow vain desires would have you go tremendously astray.

> <span id="v28">28</span> Allah would make the burden light for you, for man was created weak.

> <span id="v29">29</span> O you who believe! Squander not your wealth among yourselves in vanity, except it be a trade by mutual consent, and kill not one another. See! Allah is ever Merciful to you.

> <span id="v30">30</span> Whoso does that through aggression and injustice, we shall cast him into Fire, and that is ever easy for Allah.

> <span id="v31">31</span> If you avoid the great (things) which you are forbidden, We will remit from you your evil deeds and make you enter at a noble gate.

> <span id="v32">32</span> And covet not the thing in which Allah has made some of you excel others. Unto men a fortune from that which they have earned, and to women a fortune from that which they have earned. (Envy not one another) but ask Allah of His bounty. See! Allah is ever Knower of all things.

> <span id="v33">33</span> And to each We have appointed heirs of that which parents and near kindred leave; and as for those with whom your right hands have made a covenant, give them their due. See! Allah is ever Witness over all things.

> <span id="v34">34</span> Men are in charge of women, because Allah has made the one of them to excel the other, and because they spend of their property (for the support of women). So good women are the obedient, guarding in secret that which Allah has guarded. As for those from whom you fear rebellion, admonish them and banish them to beds apart, and scourge them. Then if they obey you, seek not a way against them. See! Allah is ever High, Exalted, Great.

> <span id="v35">35</span> And if you fear a breach between them twain (the man and wife), appoint an arbiter from his folk and an arbiter from her folk. If they desire amendment Allah will make them of one mind. See! Allah is ever Knower, Aware.

> <span id="v36">36</span> And serve Allah. Ascribe no thing as partner to Him. (Show) kindness to parents, and to near kindred, and orphans, and the needy, and to the neighbour who is of kin (to you) and the neighbour who is not of kin, and the fellow-traveller and the wayfarer and (the slaves) whom your right hands possess. See! Allah loveth not such as are proud and boastful,

> <span id="v37">37</span> Who hoard their wealth and enjoin avarice on others, and hide that which Allah has bestowed upon them of His bounty. For disbelievers We prepare a shameful doom;

> <span id="v38">38</span> And (also) those who spend their wealth in order to be seen of men, and believe not in Allah nor the Last Day. Whoso taketh Satan for a comrade, a bad comrade has he.

> <span id="v39">39</span> What have they (to fear) if they believe in Allah and the Last Day and spend (aright) of that which Allah has bestowed upon them, when Allah is ever Aware of them (and all they do) ?

> <span id="v40">40</span> See! Allah wrongeth not even of the weight of an ant; and if there is a good deed, He will double it and will give (the doer) from His presence an immense reward.

> <span id="v41">41</span> But how (will it be with them) when We bring of every people a witness, and We bring you (O Muhammad) a witness against these ?

> <span id="v42">42</span> On that day those who disbelieved and disobeyed the messenger will wish that they were level with the ground, and they can hide no fact from Allah.

> <span id="v43">43</span> O you who believe! Draw not near to prayer when you are drunken, till you know that which you utter, nor when you are polluted, save when journeying upon the road, till you have bathed. And if you be ill, or on a journey, or one of you cometh from the closet, or you have touched women, and you find not water, then go to high clean soil and rub your faces and your hands (therewith). See! Allah is Benign, Forgiving.

> <span id="v44">44</span> Seest you not those to whom a portion of the Scripture has been given, how they purchase error, and seek to make you (Muslims) err from the right way ?

> <span id="v45">45</span> Allah knows best (who are) your enemies. Allah is sufficient as a Guardian, and Allah is sufficient as a Supporter.

> <span id="v46">46</span> Some of those who are Jews change words from their context and say: "We hear and disobey; hear you as one who heareth not" and "Listen to us!" distorting with their tongues and slandering religion. If they had said: "We hear and we obey: hear thou, and look at us" it had been better for them, and more upright. But Allah has cursed them for their disbelief, so they believe not, save a few.

> <span id="v47">47</span> O you to whom the Scripture has been given! Believe in what We have revealed confirming that which you possess, before We destroy countenances so as to confound them, or curse them as We cursed the Sabbath-breakers (of old time). The commandment of Allah is always executed.

> <span id="v48">48</span> See! Allah forgives not that a partner should be ascribed to Him. He forgives (all) save that to whom He will. Whoso ascribeth partners to Allah, he has indeed invented a tremendous sin.

> <span id="v49">49</span> Have you not seen those who praise themselves for purity ? No, Allah purifieth whom He will, and they will not be wronged even the hair upon a date- stone.

> <span id="v50">50</span> See, how they invent lies about Allah! That of itself is flagrant sin.

> <span id="v51">51</span> Have you not seen those to whom a portion of the Scripture has been given, how they believe in idols and false deities, and how they say of those (idolaters) who disbelieve: "These are more rightly guided than those who believe" ?

> <span id="v52">52</span> Those are they whom Allah has cursed, and he whom Allah has cursed, you (O Muhammad) will find for him no helper.

> <span id="v53">53</span> Or have they even a share in the Sovereignty ? Then in that case, they would not give mankind even the speck on a date-stone.

> <span id="v54">54</span> Or are they jealous of mankind because of that which Allah of His bounty has bestowed upon them ? For We bestowed upon the house of Abraham (of old) the Scripture and wisdom, and We bestowed on them a mighty kingdom.

> <span id="v55">55</span> And of them were (some) who believed therein and of them were (some) who turned away from it. Hell is sufficient for (their) burning.

> <span id="v56">56</span> See! Those who disbelieve Our revelations, We shall expose them to the Fire. As often as their skins are consumed We shall exchange them for fresh skins that they may taste the torment. See! Allah is ever Mighty, Wise.

> <span id="v57">57</span> And as for those who believe and do good works, We shall make them enter Gardens underneath which rivers flow - to dwell therein for ever; there for them are pure companions - and We shall make them enter plenteous shade.

> <span id="v58">58</span> See! Allah commandeth you that you restore deposits to their owners, and, if you judge between mankind, that you judge justly. See! comely is this which Allah admonisheth you. See! Allah is ever Hearer, Seer.

> <span id="v59">59</span> O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the messenger and those of you who are in authority; and if you have a dispute concerning any matter, refer it to Allah and the messenger if you are (in truth) believers in Allah and the Last Day. That is better and more seemly in the end.

> <span id="v60">60</span> Have you not seen those who pretend that they believe in that which is revealed to you and that which was revealed before you, how they would go for judgment (in their disputes) to false deities when they have been ordered to abjure them ? Satan would mislead them far astray.

> <span id="v61">61</span> And when it is said to them: Come to that which Allah has revealed and to the messenger, you seest the hypocrites turn from you with aversion.

> <span id="v62">62</span> How would it be if a misfortune smote them because of that which their own hands have sent before (them) ? Then would they come to you, swearing by Allah that they were seeking nothing but harmony and kindness.

> <span id="v63">63</span> Those are they, the secrets of whose hearts Allah knoweth. So oppose them and admonish them, and address them in plain terms about their souls.

> <span id="v64">64</span> We sent no messenger save that he should be obeyed by Allah's leave. And if, when they had wronged themselves, they had but come to you and asked forgiveness of Allah, and asked forgiveness of the messenger, they would have found Allah Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v65">65</span> But nay, by your Lord, they will not believe (in truth) until they make you judge of what is in dispute between them and find within themselves no dislike of that which you decidest, and submit with full submission.

> <span id="v66">66</span> And if We had decreed for them: Lay down your lives or go forth from your dwellings, but few of them would have done it; though if they did what they are exhorted to do it would be better for them, and more strengthening;

> <span id="v67">67</span> And then We should bestow upon them from Our presence an immense reward,

> <span id="v68">68</span> And should guide them to a straight path.

> <span id="v69">69</span> Whoso obeyeth Allah and the messenger, they are with those to whom Allah has shown favour, of the prophets and the saints and the martyrs and the righteous. The best of company are they!

> <span id="v70">70</span> That is bounty from Allah, and Allah sufficeth as Knower.

> <span id="v71">71</span> O you who believe! Take your precautions, then advance the proven ones, or advance all together.

> <span id="v72">72</span> See! among you there is he who loitereth; and if disaster overtook you, he would say: Allah has been gracious to me since I was not present with them.

> <span id="v73">73</span> And if a bounty from Allah befell you, he would surely cry, as if there had been no love between you and him: Oh, would that I had been with them, then should I have achieved a great success!

> <span id="v74">74</span> Let those fight in the way of Allah who sell the life of this world for the other. Whoso fighteth in the way of Allah, be he slain or be he victorious, on him We shall bestow a vast reward.

> <span id="v75">75</span> How should you not fight for the cause of Allah and of the feeble among men and of the women and the children who are crying: Our Lord! Bring us forth from out this town of which the people are oppressors! Oh, give us from your presence some protecting friend! Oh, give us from your presence some defender!

> <span id="v76">76</span> Those who believe do battle for the cause of Allah; and those who disbelieve do battle for the cause of idols. So fight the minions of the devil. See! the devil's strategy is ever weak.

> <span id="v77">77</span> Have you not seen those to whom it was said: Withhold your hands, establish worship and pay the poordue, but when fighting was prescribed for them behold! a party of them fear mankind even as their fear of Allah or with greater fear, and say: Our Lord! Why hast You ordained fighting for us ? If only You wouldst give us respite yet a while! Say (to them, O Muhammad): The comfort of this world is scant; the Hereafter will be better for him who wardeth off (evil); and you will not be wronged the down upon a date-stone.

> <span id="v78">78</span> Wheresoever you may be, death will overtake you, even though you were in lofty towers. Yet if a happy thing befalleth them they say: This is from Allah; and if an evil thing befalleth them they say: This is of your doing (O Muhammad). Say (to them): All is from Allah. What is amiss with these people that they come not nigh to understand a happening ?

> <span id="v79">79</span> Whatever of good befalleth you (O man) it is from Allah, and whatever of ill befalleth you it is from yourself. We have sent you (Muhammad) as a messenger to mankind and Allah is sufficient as Witness.

> <span id="v80">80</span> Whoso obeyeth the messenger has obeyed Allah, and whoso turns away: We have not sent you as a warder over them.

> <span id="v81">81</span> And they say: (It is) obedience; but when they have gone forth from you a party of them spend the night in planning other than what you sayest. Allah recordeth what they plan by night. So oppose them and put your trust in Allah. Allah is sufficient as Trustee.

> <span id="v82">82</span> Will they not then ponder on the Qur'an ? If it had been from other than Allah they would have found therein much incongruity.

> <span id="v83">83</span> And if any tidings, whether of safety or fear, come to them, they noise it abroad, whereas if they had referred it to the messenger and to such of them as are in authority, those among them who are able to think out the matter would have known it. If it had not been for the grace of Allah upon you and His mercy you would have followed Satan, save a few (of you).

> <span id="v84">84</span> So fight (O Muhammad) in the way of Allah You are not taxed (with the responsibility for anyone) except yourself - and urge on the believers. Peradventure Allah will restrain the might of those who disbelieve. Allah is stronger in might and stronger in inflicting punishment.

> <span id="v85">85</span> Whoso interveneth in a good cause will have the reward thereof, and whoso interveneth in an evil cause will bear the consequence thereof. Allah overseeth all things.

> <span id="v86">86</span> When you are greeted with a greeting, greet you with a better than it or return it. See! Allah taketh count of all things.

> <span id="v87">87</span> Allah! There is no God save Him. He gathereth you all to a Day of Resurrection whereof there is no doubt. Who is more true in statement than Allah ?

> <span id="v88">88</span> What ails you that you are become two parties regarding the hypocrites, when Allah cast them back (to disbelief) because of what they earned ? Seek you to guide him whom Allah has sent astray ? He whom Allah sendeth astray, for him you (O MUhammad) canst not find a road.

> <span id="v89">89</span> They long that you should disbelieve even as they disbelieve, that you may be upon a level (with them). So choose not friends from them till they forsake their homes in the way of Allah; if they turn back (to enmity) then take them and kill them wherever you find them, and choose no friend nor helper from among them,

> <span id="v90">90</span> Except those who seek refuge with a people between whom and you there is a covenant, or (those who) come to you because their hearts forbid them to make war on you or make war on their own folk. Had Allah willed He could have given them power over you so that assuredly they would have fought you. So, if they hold aloof from you and wage not war against you and offer you peace, Allah alloweth you no way against them.

> <span id="v91">91</span> Ye will find others who desire that they should have security from you, and security from their own folk. So often as they are returned to hostility they are plunged therein. If they keep not aloof from you nor offer you peace nor hold their hands, then take them and kill them wherever you find them. Against such We have given you clear warrant.

> <span id="v92">92</span> It is not for a believer to kill a believer unless (it be) by mistake. He who has killed a believer by mistake must set free a believing slave, and pay the blood- money to the family of the slain, unless they remit it as a charity. If he (the victim) be of a people hostile to you, and he is a believer, then (the penance is) to set free a believing slave. And if he cometh of a folk between whom and you there is a covenant, then the blood-money must be paid to his folk and (also) a believing slave must be set free. And whoso has not the wherewithal must fast two consecutive months. A penance from Allah. Allah is Knower, Wise.

> <span id="v93">93</span> Whoso slayeth a believer of set purpose, his reward is hell for ever. Allah is wroth against him and He has cursed him and prepared for him an awful doom.

> <span id="v94">94</span> O you who believe! When you go forth (to fight) in the way of Allah, be careful to discriminate, and say not to one who offereth you peace: "Thou are not a believer," seeking the chance profits of this life (so that you may despoil him). With Allah are plenteous spoils. Even thus (as he now is) were you before; but Allah has since then been gracious to you. Therefore take care to discriminate. Allah is ever Informed of what you do.

> <span id="v95">95</span> Those of the believers who sit still, other than those who have a (disabling) hurt, are not on an equality with those who strive in the way of Allah with their wealth and lives. Allah has conferred on those who strive with their wealth and lives a rank above the sedentary. Unto each Allah has promised good, but He has bestowed on those who strive a great reward above the sedentary;

> <span id="v96">96</span> Degrees of rank from Him, and forgiveness and mercy. Allah is ever Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v97">97</span> See! as for those whom the angels take (in death) while they wrong themselves, (the angels) will ask: In what were you engaged ? They will say: We were oppressed in the land. (The angels) will say: Was not Allah's earth spacious that you could have migrated therein ? As for such, their habitation will be hell, an evil journey's end;

> <span id="v98">98</span> Except the feeble among men, and the women, and the children, who are unable to devise a plan and are not shown a way.

> <span id="v99">99</span> As for such, it may be that Allah will pardon them. Allah is ever Clement, Forgiving.

> <span id="v100">100</span> Whoso migrateth for the cause of Allah will find much refuge and abundance in the earth, and whoso forsaketh his home, a fugitive to Allah and His messenger, and death overtaketh him, his reward is then incumbent on Allah. Allah is ever Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v101">101</span> And when you go forth in the land, it is no sin for you to curtail (your) worship if you fear that those who disbelieve may attack you. In truth the disbelievers are an open enemy to you.

> <span id="v102">102</span> And when you (O Muhammad) are among them and arrangest (their) worship for them, let only a party of them stand with you (to worship) and let them take their arms. Then when they have performed their prostrations let them fall to the rear and let another party come that has not worshipped and let them worship with you, and let them take their precaution and their arms. Those who disbelieve long for you to neglect your arms and your baggage that they may attack you once for all. It is no sin for you to lay aside your arms, if rain impedeth you or you are sick. But take your precaution. See! Allah prepareth for the disbelievers shameful punishment.

> <span id="v103">103</span> When you have performed the act of worship, remember Allah, standing, sitting and reclining. And when you are in safety, observe proper worship. Worship at fixed times has been enjoined on the believers.

> <span id="v104">104</span> Relent not in pursuit of the enemy. If you are suffering, see! they suffer even as you suffer and you hope from Allah that for which they cannot hope. Allah is ever Knower, Wise.

> <span id="v105">105</span> See! We reveal to you the Scripture with the truth, that you mayst judge between mankind by that which Allah showeth you. And be not you a pleader for the treacherous;

> <span id="v106">106</span> And seek forgiveness of Allah. See! Allah is ever Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v107">107</span> And plead not on behalf of (people) who deceive themselves. See! Allah loveth not one who is treacherous and sinful.

> <span id="v108">108</span> They seek to hide from men and seek not to hide from Allah. He is with them when by night they hold discourse displeasing to Him. Allah ever surroundeth what they do.

> <span id="v109">109</span> Ho! you are they who pleaded for them in the life of the world. But who will plead with Allah for them on the Day of Resurrection, or who will then be their defender ?

> <span id="v110">110</span> Yet whoso does evil or wrongeth his own soul, then seeketh pardon of Allah, will find Allah Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v111">111</span> Whoso committeth sin committeth it only against himself. Allah is ever Knower, Wise.

> <span id="v112">112</span> And whoso committeth a delinquency or crime, then throweth (the blame) thereof upon the innocent, has burdened himself with falsehood and a flagrant crime.

> <span id="v113">113</span> But for the grace of Allah upon you (Muhammad), and His mercy, a party of them had resolved to mislead you, but they will mislead only themselves and they will hurt you not at all. Allah revealeth to you the Scripture and wisdom, and teaches you that which you knewest not. The grace of Allah toward you has been infinite.

> <span id="v114">114</span> There is no good in much of their secret conferences save (in) him who urges almsgiving and kindness and peace-making among the people. Whoso does that, seeking the good pleasure of Allah, We shall bestow on him a vast reward.

> <span id="v115">115</span> And whoso opposeth the messenger after the guidance (of Allah) has been manifested to him, and follows other than the believer's way, We appoint for him that to which he himself has turned, and expose him to hell - a hapless journey's end!

> <span id="v116">116</span> See! Allah pardoneth not that partners should be ascribed to Him. He pardoneth all save that to whom He will. Whoso ascribeth partners to Allah has wandered far astray.

> <span id="v117">117</span> They invoke in His stead only females; they pray to none else than Satan, a rebel

> <span id="v118">118</span> Whom Allah cursed, and he said: Surely I will take of your bondmen an appointed portion,

> <span id="v119">119</span> And surely I will lead them astray, and surely I will arouse desires in them, and surely I will command them and they will cut the cattle' ears, and surely I will command them and they will change Allah's creation. Whoso chooseth Satan for a patron instead of Allah is verily a loser and his loss is manifest.

> <span id="v120">120</span> He promiseth them and stirreth up desires in them, and Satan promiseth them only to beguile.

> <span id="v121">121</span> For such, their habitation will be hell, and they will find no refuge therefrom.

> <span id="v122">122</span> But as for those who believe and do good works We shall bring them into Gardens underneath which rivers flow, wherein they will abide for ever. It is a promise from Allah in truth; and who can be more truthful than Allah in utterance ?

> <span id="v123">123</span> It will not be in accordance with your desires, nor the desires of the People of the Scripture. He who does wrong will have the recompense thereof, and will not find against Allah any protecting friend or helper.

> <span id="v124">124</span> And whoso does good works, whether of male or female, and he (or she) is a believer, such will enter paradise and they will not be wronged the dint in a date- stone.

> <span id="v125">125</span> Who is better in religion than he who surrendereth his purpose to Allah while doing good (to men) and follows the tradition of Abraham, the upright ? Allah (Himself) chose Abraham for friend.

> <span id="v126">126</span> Unto Allah belongs whatsoever is in the heavens and whatsoever is in the earth. Allah ever surroundeth all things.

> <span id="v127">127</span> They consult you concerning women. Say: Allah gives you decree concerning them, and the Scripture which has been recited to you (gives decree), concerning female orphans and those to whom you give not that which is ordained for them though you desire to marry them, and (concerning) the weak among children, and that you should deal justly with orphans. Whatever good you do, see! Allah is ever Aware of it.

> <span id="v128">128</span> If a woman fears ill treatment from her husband, or desertion, it is no sin for them twain if they make terms of peace between themselves. Peace is better. But greed has been made present in the minds (of men). If you do good and keep from evil, see! Allah is ever Informed of what you do.

> <span id="v129">129</span> Ye will not be able to deal equally between (your) wives, however much you wish (to do so). But turn not altogether away (from one), leaving her as in suspense. If you do good and keep from evil, see! Allah is ever Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v130">130</span> But if they separate, Allah will compensate each out of His abundance. Allah is ever All-Embracing, All-Knowing.

> <span id="v131">131</span> Unto Allah belongs whatsoever is in the heavens and whatsoever is in the earth. And We charged those who received the Scripture before you, and (We charge) you, that you keep your duty toward Allah. And if you disbelieve, see! to Allah belongs whatsoever is in the heavens and whatsoever is in the earth, and Allah is ever Absolute, Owner of Praise.

> <span id="v132">132</span> Unto Allah belongs whatsoever is in the heavens and whatsoever is in the earth. And Allah is sufficient as Defender.

> <span id="v133">133</span> If He will, He can remove you, O people, and produce others (in your stead). Allah is Able to do that.

> <span id="v134">134</span> Whoso desireth the reward of the world, (let him know that) with Allah is the reward of the world and the Hereafter. Allah is ever Hearer, Seer.

> <span id="v135">135</span> O you who believe! Be you staunch in justice, witnesses for Allah, even though it be against yourselves or (your) parents or (your) kindred, whether (the case be of) a rich man or a poor man, for Allah is nearer to both (them you are). So follow not passion lest you lapse (from truth) and if you lapse or fall away, then see! Allah is ever Informed of what you do.

> <span id="v136">136</span> O you who believe! Believe in Allah and His messenger and the Scripture which He has revealed to His messenger, and the Scripture which He revealed aforetime. Whoso disbelieves in Allah and His angels and His scriptures and His messengers and the Last Day, he verily has wandered far astray.

> <span id="v137">137</span> See! those who believe, then disbelieve and then (again) believe, then disbelieve, and then increase in disbelief, Allah will never pardon them, nor will He guide them to a way.

> <span id="v138">138</span> Bear to the hypocrites the tidings that for them there is a painful doom;

> <span id="v139">139</span> Those who chose disbelievers for their friends instead of believers! Do they look for power at their hands ? See! all power appertaineth to Allah.

> <span id="v140">140</span> He has already revealed to you in the Scripture that, when you hear the revelations of Allah rejected and derided, (ye) sit not with them (who disbelieve and mock) until they engage in some other conversation. See! in that case (if you stayed) you would be like to them. See! Allah will gather hypocrites and disbelievers, all together, into hell;

> <span id="v141">141</span> Those who wait upon occasion in regard to you and, if a victory cometh to you from Allah, say: Are we not with you ? and if the disbelievers meet with a success say: Had we not the mastery of you, and did we not protect you from the believers ? - Allah will judge between you at the Day of Resurrection, and Allah will not give the disbelievers any way (of success) against the believers.

> <span id="v142">142</span> See! the hypocrites seek to beguile Allah, but it is He Who beguileth them. When they stand up to worship they perform it languidly and to be seen of men, and are mindful of Allah but little;

> <span id="v143">143</span> Swaying between this (and that), (belonging) neither to these nor to those. He whom Allah causes to go astray, you (O Muhammad) will not find a way for him:

> <span id="v144">144</span> O you who believe! Choose not disbelievers for (your) friends in place of believers. Would you give Allah a clear warrant against you ?

> <span id="v145">145</span> See! the hypocrites (will be) in the lowest deep of the Fire, and you will find no helper for them;

> <span id="v146">146</span> Save those who repent and amend and hold fast to Allah and make their religion pure for Allah (only). Those are with the believers. And Allah will bestow on the believers an immense reward.

> <span id="v147">147</span> What concern has Allah for your punishment if you are thankful (for His mercies) and believe (in Him) ? Allah was ever Responsive, Aware.

> <span id="v148">148</span> Allah loveth not the utterance of harsh speech save by one who has been wronged. Allah is ever Hearer, Knower.

> <span id="v149">149</span> If you do good openly or keep it secret, or forgive evil, see! Allah is ever Forgiving, Powerful.

> <span id="v150">150</span> See! those who disbelieve in Allah and His messengers, and seek to make distinction between Allah and His messengers, and say: We believe in some and disbelieve in others, and seek to choose a way in between;

> <span id="v151">151</span> Such are disbelievers in truth; and for disbelievers We prepare a shameful doom.

> <span id="v152">152</span> But those who believe in Allah and His messengers and make no distinction between any of them, to them Allah will give their wages; and Allah was ever Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v153">153</span> The people of the Scripture ask of you that you shouldst cause an (actual) Book to descend upon them from heaven. They asked a greater thing of Moses aforetime, for they said: Show us Allah plainly. The storm of lightning seized them for their wickedness. Then (even) after that) they chose the calf (for worship) after clear proofs (of Allah's Sovereignty) had come to them. And We forgave them that! And We bestowed on Moses evident authority.

> <span id="v154">154</span> And We caused the Mount to tower above them at (the taking of) their covenant: and We bade them: Enter the gate, prostrate! and We bode them: Transgress not the Sabbath! and We took from them a firm covenant.

> <span id="v155">155</span> Then because of their breaking of their covenant, and their disbelieving in the revelations of Allah, and their slaying of the prophets wrongfully, and their saying: Our hearts are hardened - No, but Allah set a seal upon them for their disbelief, so that they believe not save a few -

> <span id="v156">156</span> And because of their disbelief and of their speaking against Mary a tremendous calumny;

> <span id="v157">157</span> And because of their saying: We slew the Messiah, Jesus son of Mary, Allah's messenger - they slew him not nor crucified him, but it appeared so to them; and see! those who disagree concerning it are in doubt thereof; they have no knowledge thereof save pursuit of a conjecture; they slew him not for certain.

> <span id="v158">158</span> But Allah took him up to Himself. Allah was ever Mighty, Wise.

> <span id="v159">159</span> There is not one of the People of the Scripture but will believe in him before his death, and on the Day of Resurrection he will be a witness against them -

> <span id="v160">160</span> Because of the wrongdoing of the Jews We forbade them good things which were (before) made lawful to them, and because of their much hindering from Allah's way,

> <span id="v161">161</span> And of their taking usury when they were forbidden it, and of their devouring people's wealth by false pretences, We have prepared for those of them who disbelieve a painful doom.

> <span id="v162">162</span> But those of them who are firm in knowledge and the believers believe in that which is revealed to you, and that which was revealed before you, especially the diligent in prayer and those who pay the poor-due, the believers in Allah and the Last Day. Upon these We shall bestow immense reward.

> <span id="v163">163</span> See! We inspire you as We inspired Noah and the prophets after him, as We inspired Abraham and Ishmael and Isaac and Jacob and the tribes, and Jesus and Job and Jonah and Aaron and Solomon, and as We imparted to David the Psalms;

> <span id="v164">164</span> And messengers We have mentioned to you before and messengers We have not mentioned to you; and Allah spake directly to Moses;

> <span id="v165">165</span> Messengers of good cheer and of warning, in order that mankind might have no argument against Allah after the messengers. Allah was ever Mighty, Wise.

> <span id="v166">166</span> But Allah (Himself) testifieth concerning that which He has revealeth to you; in His knowledge has He revealed it; and the angels also testify. And Allah is sufficient Witness.

> <span id="v167">167</span> See! those who disbelieve and hinder (others) from the way of Allah, they verily have wandered far astray.

> <span id="v168">168</span> See! those who disbelieve and deal in wrong, Allah will never forgive them, neither will He guide them to a road,

> <span id="v169">169</span> Except the road of hell, wherein they will abide for ever. And that is ever easy for Allah.

> <span id="v170">170</span> O mankind! The messenger has come to you with the Truth from your Lord. Therefore believe; (it is) better for you. But if you disbelieve, still, see! to Allah belongs whatsoever is in the heavens and the earth. Allah is ever Knower, Wise.

> <span id="v171">171</span> O People of the Scripture! Do not exaggerate in your religion nor utter aught concerning Allah save the truth. The Messiah, Jesus son of Mary, was only a messenger of Allah, and His word which He conveyed to Mary, and a spirit from Him. So believe in Allah and His messengers, and say not "Three" - Cease! (it is) better for you! - Allah is only One God. Far is it removed from His Transcendent Majesty that He should have a son. His is all that is in the heavens and all that is in the earth. And Allah is sufficient as Defender.

> <span id="v172">172</span> The Messiah will never scorn to be a slave to Allah, nor will the favoured angels. Whoso scorneth His service and is proud, all such will He assemble to Him;

> <span id="v173">173</span> Then, as for those who believed and did good works, to them will He pay their wages in full, adding to them of His bounty; and as for those who were scornful and proud, them will He punish with a painful doom. And they will not find for them, against Allah, any protecting friend or helper.

> <span id="v174">174</span> O mankind! Now has a proof from your Lord come to you, and We have sent down to you a clear light;

> <span id="v175">175</span> As for those who believe in Allah, and hold fast to Him, them He will cause to enter into His mercy and grace, and will guide them to Him by a straight road.

> <span id="v176">176</span> They ask you for a pronouncement. Say: Allah has pronounced for you concerning distant kindred. If a man die childless and he have a sister, hers is half the heritage, and he would have inherited from her had she died childless. And if there be two sisters, then theirs are two-thirds of the heritage, and if they be brethren, men and women, to the male is the equivalent of the share of two females. Allah expoundeth to you, so that you err not. Allah is Knower of all things.
