---
layout: surah
title: Surah 5
search: true
permalink: /quran/5/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> O you who believe! Fulfil your indentures. The beast of cattle is made lawful to you (for food) except that which is announced to you (herein), game being unlawful when you are on the pilgrimage. See! Allah ordaineth that which pleaseth Him.

> <span id="v2">2</span> O you who believe! Profane not Allah's monuments nor the Sacred Month nor the offerings nor the garlands, nor those repairing to the Sacred House, seeking the grace and pleasure of their Lord. But when you have left the sacred territory, then go hunting (if you will). And let not your hatred of a folk who (once) stopped your going to the inviolable place of worship seduce you to transgress; but help you one another to righteousness and pious duty. Help not one another to sin and transgression, but keep your duty to Allah. See! Allah is severe in punishment.

> <span id="v3">3</span> Forbidden to you (for food) are carrion and blood and swineflesh, and that which has been dedicated to any other than Allah, and the strangled, and the dead through beating, and the dead through falling from a height, and that which has been killed by (the goring of) horns, and the devoured of wild beasts, saving that which you make lawful (by the death-stroke), and that which has been immolated to idols. And (forbidden is it) that you swear by the divining arrows. This is an abomination. This day are those who disbelieve in despair of (ever harming) your religion; so fear them not, fear Me! This day have I perfected your religion for you and completed My favour to you, and have chosen for you as religion al-Islam. Whoso is forced by hunger, not by will, to sin: (for him) see! Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v4">4</span> They ask you (O Muhammad) what is made lawful for them. Say: (all) good things are made lawful for you. And those beasts and birds of prey which you have trained as hounds are trained, you teach them that which Allah taught you; so eat of that which they catch for you and mention Allah's name upon it, and observe your duty to Allah. See! Allah is swift to take account.

> <span id="v5">5</span> This day are (all) good things made lawful for you. The food of those who have received the Scripture is lawful for you, and your food is lawful for them. And so are the virtuous women of the believers and the virtuous women of those who received the Scripture before you (lawful for you) when you give them their marriage portions and live with them in honour, not in fornication, nor taking them as secret concubines. Whoso denies the faith, his work is vain and he will be among the losers in the Hereafter.

> <span id="v6">6</span> O you who believe! When you rise up for prayer, wash you faces, and your hands up to the elbows, and lightly rub your heads and (wash) your feet up to the ankles. And if you are unclean, purify yourselves. And if you are sick or on a journey, or one of you cometh from the closet, or you have had contact with women, and you find not water, then go to clean, high ground and rub your faces and your hands with some of it. Allah would not place a burden on you, but He would purify you and would perfect His grace upon you, that you may give thanks.

> <span id="v7">7</span> Remember Allah's grace upon you and His covenant by which He bound you when you said: We hear and we obey; And keep your duty to Allah. See! He knows what is in the breasts (of men).

> <span id="v8">8</span> O you who believe! Be steadfast witnesses for Allah in equity, and let not hatred of any people seduce you that you deal not justly. Deal justly, that is nearer to your duty. Observe your duty to Allah. See! Allah is Informed of what you do.

> <span id="v9">9</span> Allah has promised those who believe and do good works: Theirs will be forgiveness and immense reward.

> <span id="v10">10</span> And they who disbelieve and deny Our revelations, such are rightful owners of hell.

> <span id="v11">11</span> O you who believe! Remember Allah's favour to you, how a people were minded to stretch out their hands against you but He withheld their hands from you; and keep your duty to Allah. In Allah let believers put their trust.

> <span id="v12">12</span> Allah made a covenant of old with the Children of Israel and We raised among them twelve chieftains, and Allah said: See! I am with you. If you establish worship and pay the poor-due, and believe in My messengers and support them, and lend to Allah a kindly loan, surely I shall remit your sins, and surely I shall bring you into Gardens underneath which rivers flow. Whoso among you disbelieves after this will go astray from a plain road.

> <span id="v13">13</span> And because of their breaking their covenant, We have cursed them and made hard their hearts. They change words from their context and forget a part of that whereof they were admonished. You will not cease to discover treachery from all save a few of them. But bear with them and pardon them. See! Allah loveth the kindly.

> <span id="v14">14</span> And with those who say: "See! we are Christians," We made a covenant, but they forgot a part of that whereof they were admonished. Therefore We have stirred up enmity and hatred among them till the Day of Resurrection, when Allah will inform them of their handiwork.

> <span id="v15">15</span> O People of the Scripture! Now has Our messenger come to you, expounding to you much of that which you used to hide in the Scripture, and forgiving much. now has come to you light from Allah and plain Scripture,

> <span id="v16">16</span> Whereby Allah guides him who seeketh His good pleasure to paths of peace. He brings them out of darkness to light by His decree, and guides them to a straight path.

> <span id="v17">17</span> They indeed have disbelieved who say: See! Allah is the Messiah, son of Mary. Say: Who then can do aught against Allah, if He had willed to destroy the Messiah son of Mary, and his mother and everyone on earth ? Allah's is the Sovereignty of the heavens and the earth and all that is between them. He created what He will. And Allah is Able to do all things.

> <span id="v18">18</span> The Jews and Christians say: We are sons of Allah and His loved ones. Say: Why then does He chastise you for your sins ? No, you are but mortals of His creating. He forgives whom He will, and chastiseth whom He will. Allah's is the Sovereignty of the heavens and the earth and all that is between them, and to Him is the journeying.

> <span id="v19">19</span> O People of the Scripture! Now has Our messenger come to you to make things plain to you after an interval (of cessation) of the messengers, lest you should say: There came not to us a messenger of cheer nor any warner. Now has a messenger of cheer and a warner come to you. Allah is Able to do all things.

> <span id="v20">20</span> And (remember) when Moses said to his people: O my people! Remember Allah's favour to you, how He placed among you prophets, and He made you kings, and gave you that (which) He gave not to any (other) of (His) creatures.

> <span id="v21">21</span> O my people! Go into the holy land which Allah has ordained for you. Turn not in flight, for surely you turn back as losers:

> <span id="v22">22</span> They said: O Moses! See! a giant people (dwell) therein and see! we go not in till they go forth from thence. When they go forth from thence, then we will enter (not till then).

> <span id="v23">23</span> Then out spake two of those who feared (their Lord, men) to whom Allah had been gracious: Enter in upon them by the gate, for if you enter by it, see! you will be victorious. So put your trust (in Allah) if you are indeed believers.

> <span id="v24">24</span> They said: O Moses! We will never enter (the land) while they are in it. So go you and your Lord and fight! We will sit here.

> <span id="v25">25</span> He said: My Lord! I have control of none but myself and my brother, so distinguish between us and the wrong-doing folk.

> <span id="v26">26</span> (Their Lord) said: For this the land will surely be forbidden them for forty years that they will wander in the earth, bewildered. So grieve not over the wrongdoing folk.

> <span id="v27">27</span> But recite to them with truth the tale of the two sons of Adam, how they offered each a sacrifice, and it was accepted from the one of them and it was not accepted from the other. (The one) said: I will surely kill you. (The other) answered: Allah accepteth only from those who ward off (evil).

> <span id="v28">28</span> Even if you stretch out your hand against me to kill me, I shall not stretch out my hand against you to kill you, see! I fear Allah, the Lord of the Worlds.

> <span id="v29">29</span> See! I would rather you shouldst bear the punishment of the sin against me and thine own sin and become one of the owners of the fire. That is the reward of evil-doers.

> <span id="v30">30</span> But (the other's) mind imposed on him the killing of his brother, so he slew him and became one of the losers.

> <span id="v31">31</span> Then Allah sent a raven scratching up the ground, to show him how to hide his brother's naked corpse. He said: Woe to me! Am I not able to be as this raven and so hide my brother's naked corpse ? And he became repentant.

> <span id="v32">32</span> For that cause We decreed for the Children of Israel that whosoever killeth a human being for other than manslaughter or corruption in the earth, it shall be as if he had killed all mankind, and whoso saveth the life of one, it shall be as if he had saved the life of all mankind. Our messengers came to them of old with clear proofs (of Allah's Sovereignty), but afterwards see! many of them became prodigals in the earth.

> <span id="v33">33</span> The only reward of those who make war upon Allah and His messenger and strive after corruption in the land will be that they will be killed or crucified, or have their hands and feet on alternate sides cut off, or will be expelled out of the land. Such will be their degradation in the world, and in the Hereafter theirs will be an awful doom;

> <span id="v34">34</span> Save those who repent before you overpower them. For know that Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v35">35</span> O you who believe! Be mindful of your duty to Allah, and seek the way of approach to Him, and strive in His way in order that you may succeed.

> <span id="v36">36</span> As for those who disbelieve, see! if all that is in the earth were theirs, and as much again therewith, to ransom them from the doom on the Day of Resurrection, it would not be accepted from them. Theirs will be a painful doom.

> <span id="v37">37</span> They will wish to come forth from the Fire, but they will not come forth from it. Theirs will be a lasting doom.

> <span id="v38">38</span> As for the thief, both male and female, cut off their hands. It is the reward of their own deeds, an exemplary punishment from Allah. Allah is Mighty, Wise.

> <span id="v39">39</span> But whoso repenteth after his wrongdoing and amendeth, see! Allah will relent toward him. See! Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v40">40</span> Knowest you not that to Allah belongeth the Sovereignty of the heavens and the earth ? He punishes whom He will, and forgives whom He will. Allah is Able to do all things.

> <span id="v41">41</span> O Messenger! Let not them grieve you who vie one with another in the race to disbelief, of such as say with their mouths: "We believe," but their hearts believe not, and of the Jews: listeners for the sake of falsehood, listeners on behalf of other folk who come not to you, changing words from their context and saying: If this be given to you, receive it, but if this be not given to you, then beware! He whom Allah doometh to sin, you (by thine efforts) will avail him nothing against Allah. Those are they for whom the Will of Allah is that He cleanse not their hearts. Theirs in the world will be ignominy, and in the Hereafter an awful doom;

> <span id="v42">42</span> Listeners for the sake of falsehood! Greedy for illicit gain! If then they have recourse to you (Muhammad) judge between them or disclaim jurisdiction. If you disclaimest jurisdiction, then they cannot harm you at all. But if you judgest, judge between them with equity. See! Allah loveth the equitable.

> <span id="v43">43</span> How come they to you for judgment when they have the Torah, wherein Allah has delivered judgment (for them) ? Yet even after that they turn away. Such (folk) are not believers.

> <span id="v44">44</span> See! We did reveal the Torah, wherein is guidance and a light, by which the prophets who surrendered (unto Allah) judged the Jews, and the rabbis and the priests (judged) by such of Allah's Scripture as they were bidden to observe, and thereunto were they witnesses. So fear not mankind, but fear Me. And My revelations for a little gain. Whoso judgeth not by that which Allah has revealed: such are disbelievers.

> <span id="v45">45</span> And We prescribed for them therein: The life for the life, and the eye for the eye, and the nose for the nose, and the ear for the ear, and the tooth for the tooth, and for wounds retaliation. But whoso forgoeth it (in the way of charity) it shall be expiation for him. Whoso judgeth not by that which Allah has revealed: such are wrong-doers.

> <span id="v46">46</span> And We caused Jesus, son of Mary, to follow in their footsteps, confirming that which was (revealed) before him in the Torah, and We bestowed on him the Gospel wherein is guidance and a light, confirming that which was (revealed) before it in the Torah - a guidance and an admonition to those who ward off (evil).

> <span id="v47">47</span> Let the People of the Gospel judge by that which Allah has revealed therein. Whoso judgeth not by that which Allah has revealed: such are evil-livers.

> <span id="v48">48</span> And to you have We revealed the Scripture with the truth, confirming whatever Scripture was before it, and a watcher over it. So judge between them by that which Allah has revealed, and follow not their desires away from the truth which has come to you. For each We have appointed a divine law and a traced-out way. Had Allah willed He could have made you one community. But that He may try you by that which He has given you (He has made you as you are). So vie one with another in good works. Unto Allah you will all return, and He will then inform you of that wherein you differ.

> <span id="v49">49</span> So judge between them by that which Allah has revealed, and follow not their desires, but beware of them lest they seduce you from some part of that which Allah has revealed to you. And if they turn away, then know that Allah's Will is to smite them for some sin of theirs. See! many of mankind are evil-livers.

> <span id="v50">50</span> Is it a judgment of the time of (pagan) ignorance that they are seeking ? Who is better than Allah for judgment to a people who have certainty (in their belief) ?

> <span id="v51">51</span> O you who believe! Take not the Jews and the Christians for friends. They are friends one to another. He among you who taketh them for friends is (one) of them. See! Allah guides not wrongdoing folk.

> <span id="v52">52</span> And you seest those in whose heart is a disease race toward them, saying: We fear lest a change of fortune befall us. And it may happen that Allah will vouchsafe (unto you) the victory, or a commandment from His presence. Then will they repent them of their secret thoughts.

> <span id="v53">53</span> Then will the believers say (unto the people of the Scripture): are these they who swore by Allah their most binding oaths that they were surely with you ? Their works have failed, and they have become the losers.

> <span id="v54">54</span> O you who believe! Whoso of you becometh a renegade from his religion, (know that in his stead) Allah will bring a people whom He loveth and who love Him, humble toward believers, stern toward disbelievers, striving in the way of Allah, and fearing not the blame of any blamer. Such is the grace of Allah which He gives to whom He will. Allah is All-Embracing, All-Knowing.

> <span id="v55">55</span> Your guardian can be only Allah; and His messenger and those who believe, who establish worship and pay the poordue, and bow down (in prayer).

> <span id="v56">56</span> And whoso taketh Allah and His messenger and those who believe for guardian (will know that), see! the party of Allah, they are the victorious.

> <span id="v57">57</span> O Ye who believe! Choose not for guardians such of those who received the Scripture before you, and of the disbelievers, as make a jest and sport of your religion. But keep your duty to Allah if you are true believers.

> <span id="v58">58</span> And when you call to prayer they take it for a jest and sport. That is because they are a folk who understand not.

> <span id="v59">59</span> Say: O People of the Scripture! Do you blame us for aught else than that we believe in Allah and that which is revealed to us and that which was revealed aforetime, and because most of you are evil-livers ?

> <span id="v60">60</span> Shall I tell you of a worse (case) than theirs for retribution with Allah ? (Worse is the case of him) whom Allah has cursed, him on whom His wrath has fallen and of whose sort Allah has turned some to apes and swine, and who serveth idols. Such are in worse plight and further astray from the plain road.

> <span id="v61">61</span> When they come to you (Muslims), they say: We believe; but they came in unbelief and they went out in the same; and Allah knows best what they were hiding.

> <span id="v62">62</span> And you seest many of them vying one with another in sin and transgression and their devouring of illicit gain. Verily evil is what they do.

> <span id="v63">63</span> Why do not the rabbis and the priests forbid their evil-speaking and their devouring of illicit gain ? Verily evil is their handiwork.

> <span id="v64">64</span> The Jews say: Allah's hand is fettered. Their hands are fettered and they are accursed for saying so. No, but both His hands are spread out wide in bounty. He bestoweth as He will. That which has been revealed to you from your Lord is certain to increase the contumacy and disbelief of many of them, and We have cast among them enmity and hatred till the Day of Resurrection. As often as they light a fire for war, Allah extinguisheth it. Their effort is for corruption in the land, and Allah loveth not corrupters.

> <span id="v65">65</span> If only the People of the Scripture would believe and ward off (evil), surely We should remit their sins from them and surely We should bring them into Gardens of Delight.

> <span id="v66">66</span> If they had observed the Torah and the Gospel and that which was revealed to them from their Lord, they would surely have been nourished from above them and from beneath their feet. Among them there are people who are moderate, but many of them are of evil conduct.

> <span id="v67">67</span> O Messenger! Make known that which has been revealed to you from your Lord, for if you do it not, you will not have conveyed His message. Allah will protect you from mankind. See! Allah guides not the disbelieving folk.

> <span id="v68">68</span> Say O People of the Scripture! Ye have nothing (of guidance) till you observe the Torah and the Gospel and that which was revealed to you from your Lord. That which is revealed to you (Muhammad) from your Lord is certain to increase the contumacy and disbelief of many of them. But grieve not for the disbelieving folk.

> <span id="v69">69</span> See! those who believe, and those who are Jews, and Sabaeans, and Christians - Whosoever believes in Allah and the Last Day and does right - there shall no fear come upon them neither shall they grieve.

> <span id="v70">70</span> We made a covenant of old with the Children of Israel and We sent to them messengers. As often as a messenger came to them with that which their souls desired not (they became rebellious). Some (of them) they denied and some they slew.

> <span id="v71">71</span> They thought no harm would come of it, so they were wilfully blind and deaf. And afterward Allah turned (in mercy) toward them. Now (even after that) are many of them wilfully blind and deaf. Allah is Seer of what they do.

> <span id="v72">72</span> They surely disbelieve who say: See! Allah is the Messiah, son of Mary. The Messiah (himself) said: O Children of Israel, worship Allah, my Lord and your Lord. See! whoso ascribeth partners to Allah, for him Allah has forbidden paradise. His abode is the Fire. For evil-doers there will be no helpers.

> <span id="v73">73</span> They surely disbelieve who say: See! Allah is the third of three; when there is no God save the One God. If they desist not from so saying a painful doom will fall on those of them who disbelieve.

> <span id="v74">74</span> Will they not rather turn to Allah and seek forgiveness of Him ? For Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v75">75</span> The Messiah, son of Mary, was no other than a messenger, messengers (the like of whom) had passed away before him. And his mother was a saintly woman. And they both used to eat (earthly) food. See how We make the revelations clear for them, and see how they are turned away!

> <span id="v76">76</span> Say: Serve you in place of Allah that which possesseth for you neither hurt nor use ? Allah it is Who is the Hearer, the Knower.

> <span id="v77">77</span> Say: O People of the Scripture! Stress not in your religion other than the truth, and follow not the vain desires of folk who erred of old and led many astray, and erred from a plain road.

> <span id="v78">78</span> Those of the Children of Israel who went astray were cursed by the tongue of David, and of Jesus, son of Mary. That was because they rebelled and used to transgress.

> <span id="v79">79</span> They restrained not one another from the wickedness they did. Verily evil was that they used to do!

> <span id="v80">80</span> You seest many of them making friends with those who disbelieve. Surely ill for them is that which they themselves send on before them: that Allah will be wroth with them and in the doom they will abide.

> <span id="v81">81</span> If they believed in Allah and the Prophet and that which is revealed to him, they would not choose them for their friends. But many of them are of evil conduct.

> <span id="v82">82</span> You will find the most vehement of mankind in hostility to those who believe (to be) the Jews and the idolaters. And you will find the nearest of them in affection to those who believe (to be) those who say: See! We are Christians. That is because there are among them priests and monks, and because they are not proud.

> <span id="v83">83</span> When they listen to that which has been revealed to the messengers, you seest their eyes overflow with tears because of their recognition of the Truth. They say: Our Lord, we believe. Inscribe us as among the witnesses.

> <span id="v84">84</span> How should we not believe in Allah and that which has come to us of the Truth. And (how should we not) hope that our Lord will bring us in along with righteous folk ?

> <span id="v85">85</span> Allah has rewarded them for that their saying - Gardens underneath which rivers flow, wherein they will abide for ever. That is the reward of the good.

> <span id="v86">86</span> But those who disbelieve and deny Our revelations, they are owners of hell- fire.

> <span id="v87">87</span> O you who believe! Forbid not the good things which Allah has made lawful for you, and transgress not, See! Allah loveth not transgressors.

> <span id="v88">88</span> Eat of that which Allah has bestowed on you as food lawful and good, and keep your duty to Allah in Whom you are believers.

> <span id="v89">89</span> Allah will not take you to task for that which is unintentional in your oaths, but He will take you to task for the oaths which you swear in earnest. The expiation thereof is the feeding of ten of the needy with the average of that wherewith you feed your own folk, or the clothing of them, or the liberation of a slave, and for him who findeth not (the wherewithal to do so) then a three days' fast. This is the expiation of your oaths when you have sworn; and keep your oaths. Thus Allah expoundeth to you His revelations in order that you may give thanks.

> <span id="v90">90</span> O you who believe! Strong drink and games of chance and idols and divining arrows are only an infamy of Satan's handiwork. Leave it aside in order that you may succeed.

> <span id="v91">91</span> Satan seeketh only to cast among you enmity and hatred by means of strong drink and games of chance, and to turn you from remembrance of Allah and from (His) worship. Will you then have done ?

> <span id="v92">92</span> Obey Allah and obey the messenger, and beware! But if you turn away, then know that the duty of Our messenger is only plain conveyance (of the message).

> <span id="v93">93</span> There shall be no sin (imputed) to those who believe and do good works for what they may have eaten (in the past). So be mindful of your duty (to Allah), and believe, and do good works; and again: be mindful of your duty, and believe; and once again: be mindful of your duty, and do right. Allah loveth the good.

> <span id="v94">94</span> O you who believe! Allah will surely try you somewhat (in the matter) of the game which you take with your hands and your spears, that Allah may know him who fears Him in secret. Whoso transgresseth after this, for him there is a painful doom.

> <span id="v95">95</span> O you who believe! Kill no wild game while you are on the pilgrimage. Whoso of you killeth it of set purpose he shall pay its forfeit in the equivalent of that which he has killed, of domestic animals, the judge to be two men among you known for justice, (the forfeit) to be brought as an offering to the Ka'bah; or, for expiation, he shall feed poor persons, or the equivalent thereof in fasting, that he may taste the evil consequences of his deed. Allah forgives whatever (of this kind) may have happened in the past, but whoso relapseth, Allah will take retribution from him. Allah is Mighty, Able to Requite (the wrong).

> <span id="v96">96</span> To hunt and to eat the fish of the sea is made lawful for you, a provision for you and for seafarers; but to hunt on land is forbidden you so long as you are on the pilgrimage. Be mindful of your duty to Allah, to Whom you will be gathered.

> <span id="v97">97</span> Allah has appointed the Ka'bah, the Sacred House, a standard for mankind, and the Sacred Month and the offerings and the garlands. That is so that you may know that Allah knows whatsoever is in the heavens and whatsoever is in the earth, and that Allah is Knower of all things.

> <span id="v98">98</span> Know that Allah is severe in punishment, but that Allah (also) is Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v99">99</span> The duty of the messenger is only to convey (the message). Allah knows what you proclaim and what you hide.

> <span id="v100">100</span> Say: The evil and the good are not alike even though the plenty of the evil attract you. So be mindful of your duty to Allah, O men of understanding, that you may succeed.

> <span id="v101">101</span> O you who believe! Ask not of things which, if they were made to you, would trouble you; but if you ask of them when the Qur'an is being revealed, they will be made known to you. Allah pardoneth this, for Allah is Forgiving, Clement.

> <span id="v102">102</span> A folk before you asked (for such disclosures) and then disbelieved therein.

> <span id="v103">103</span> Allah has not appointed anything in the nature of a Bahirah or a Sa'ibah or a Wasilah or a Hami, but those who disbelieve invent a lie against Allah. Most of them have no sense.

> <span id="v104">104</span> And when it is said to them: Come to that which Allah has revealed and to the messenger, they say: Enough for us is that wherein we found our fathers. What! Even though their fathers had no knowledge whatsoever, and no guidance ?

> <span id="v105">105</span> O you who believe! Ye have charge of your own souls. He who erreth cannot injure you if you are rightly guided. Unto Allah you will all return; and then He will inform you of what you used to do.

> <span id="v106">106</span> O you who believe! Let there be witnesses between you when death draweth nigh to one of you, at the time of bequest - two witnesses, just men from among you, or two others from another tribe, in case you are campaigning in the land and the calamity of death befall you. Ye shall empanel them both after the prayer, and, if you doubt, they shall be made to swear by Allah (saying): We will not take a bribe, even though it were (on behalf of) a near kinsman nor will we hide the testimony of Allah, for then indeed we should be of the sinful.

> <span id="v107">107</span> But then, if it is afterwards ascertained that both of them merit (the suspicion of) sin, let two others take their place of those nearly concerned, and let them swear by Allah, (saying): Verily our testimony is truer than their testimony and we have not transgressed (the bounds of duty), for them indeed we should be of the evil-doers.

> <span id="v108">108</span> Thus it is more likely that they will bear true witness or fear that after their oaths the oaths (of others) will be taken. So be mindful of your duty (to Allah) and hearken. Allah guides not the contrary folk.

> <span id="v109">109</span> In the day when Allah gathereth together the messengers, and said: What was your response (from mankind) ? they say: We have no knowledge. See! Thou, only You are the Knower of Things Hidden,

> <span id="v110">110</span> When Allah said: O Jesus, son of Mary! Remember My favour to you and to your mother; how I strengthened you with the holy Spirit, so that you spakest to mankind in the cradle as in maturity; and how I taught you the Scripture and Wisdom and the Torah and the Gospel; and how you didst shape of clay as it were the likeness of a bird by My permission, and didst blow upon it and it was a bird by My permission, and you didst heal him who was born blind and the leper by My permission; and how you didst raise the dead by My permission; and how I restrained the Children of Israel from (harming) you when you camest to them with clear proofs, and those of them who disbelieved exclaimed: This is nothing else than mere magic;

> <span id="v111">111</span> And when I inspired the disciples, (saying): Believe in Me and in My messenger, they said: We believe. Bear witness that we have surrendered (unto Thee) "we are muslims".

> <span id="v112">112</span> When the disciples said: O Jesus, son of Mary! Is your Lord able to send down for us a table spread with food from heaven ? He said: Observe your duty to Allah, if you are true believers.

> <span id="v113">113</span> (They said:) We wish to eat thereof, that we may satisfy our hearts and know that you hast spoken truth to us, and that thereof we may be witnesses.

> <span id="v114">114</span> Jesus, son of Mary, said: O Allah, Lord of us! Send down for us a table spread with food from heaven, that it may be a feast for us, for the first of us and for the last of us, and a sign from Thee. Give us sustenance, for You are the Best of Sustainers.

> <span id="v115">115</span> Allah said: See! I send it down for you. And whoso disbelieves of you afterward, him surely will I punish with a punishment wherewith I have not punished any of (My) creatures.

> <span id="v116">116</span> And when Allah said: O Jesus, son of Mary! Didst you say to mankind: Take me and my mother for two gods beside Allah ? he said: Be glorified! It was not mine to utter that to which I had no right. If I used to say it, then You knewest it. You knowest what is in my mind, and I know not what is in your Mind. See! Thou, only Thou, are the Knower of Things Hidden ?

> <span id="v117">117</span> I spake to them only that which You commandedst me, (saying): Worship Allah, my Lord and your Lord. I was a witness of them while I dwelt among them, and when You tookest me You wast the Watcher over them. You are Witness over all things.

> <span id="v118">118</span> If You punish them, see! they are your slaves, and if You forgive them (see! they are your slaves). See! Thou, only Thou, are the Mighty, the Wise.

> <span id="v119">119</span> Allah said: This is a day in which their truthfulness profiteth the truthful, for theirs are Gardens underneath which rivers flow, wherein they are secure for ever, Allah taking pleasure in them and they in Him. That is the great triumph.

> <span id="v120">120</span> Unto Allah belongeth the Sovereignty of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is therein, and He is Able to do all things.
