---
layout: surah
title: Surah 6
search: true
permalink: /quran/6/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> Praise be to Allah, Who has created the heavens and the earth, and has appointed darkness and light. Yet those who disbelieve ascribe rivals to their Lord.

> <span id="v2">2</span> He it is Who has created you from clay, and has decreed a term for you. A term is fixed with Him. Yet still you doubt!

> <span id="v3">3</span> He is Allah in the heavens and in the earth. He knows both your secret and your utterance, and He knows what you earn.

> <span id="v4">4</span> Never came there to them a revelation of the revelations of Allah but they did turn away from it.

> <span id="v5">5</span> And they denied the truth when it came to them. But there will come to them the tidings of that which they used to deride.

> <span id="v6">6</span> See they not how many a generation We destroyed before them, whom We had established in the earth more firmly than We have established you, and We shed on them abundant showers from the sky, and made the rivers flow beneath them. Yet we destroyed them for their sins, and created after them another generation.

> <span id="v7">7</span> Had we sent down to you (Muhammad) (actual) writing upon parchment, so that they could feel it with their hands, those who disbelieve would have said: This is nothing else than mere magic.

> <span id="v8">8</span> They say: Why has not an angel been sent down to him ? If We sent down an angel, then the matter would be judged; no further time would be allowed them (for reflection).

> <span id="v9">9</span> Had we appointed him (Our messenger) an angel, We assuredly had made him (as) a man (that he might speak to men); and (thus) obscured for them (the truth) they (now) obscure.

> <span id="v10">10</span> Messengers (of Allah) have been derided before thee, but that whereat they scoffed surrounded such of them as did deride.

> <span id="v11">11</span> Say (unto the disbelievers): Travel in the land, and see the nature of the consequence for the rejecters!

> <span id="v12">12</span> Say: Unto whom belongeth whatsoever is in the heavens and the earth ? Say: Unto Allah. He has prescribed for Himself mercy, that He may bring you all together to the Day of Resurrection whereof there is no doubt. Those who ruin their souls will not believe.

> <span id="v13">13</span> Unto Him belongeth whatsoever resteth in the night and the day. He is the Hearer, the Knower.

> <span id="v14">14</span> Say: Shall I choose for a protecting friend other than Allah, the Originator of the heavens and the earth, Who feedeth and is never fed ? Say: I am ordered to be the first to surrender (unto Him). And be not you (O Muhammad) of the idolaters.

> <span id="v15">15</span> Say: I fear, if I rebel against my Lord, the retribution of an Awful Day.

> <span id="v16">16</span> He from whom (such retribution) is averted on that day, (Allah) has in truth had mercy on him. That will be the signal triumph.

> <span id="v17">17</span> If Allah touch you with affliction, there is none that can relieve therefrom save Him, and if He touch you with good fortune (there is none that can impair it); for He is Able to do all things.

> <span id="v18">18</span> He is the Omnipotent over His slaves, and He is the Wise, the Knower.

> <span id="v19">19</span> Say (O Muhammad): What thing is of most weight in testimony ? Say: Allah is Witness between me and you. And this Qur'an has been inspired in me, that I may warn therewith you and whomsoever it may reach. Do you in sooth bear witness that there are gods beside Allah ? Say: I bear no such witness. Say: He is only One God. See! I am innocent of that which you associate (with Him).

> <span id="v20">20</span> Those to whom We gave the Scripture recognise (this revelation) as they recognise their sons. Those who ruin their own souls will not believe.

> <span id="v21">21</span> Who doth greater wrong than he who inventeth a lie against Allah or denies His revelations ? See! the wrongdoers will not be successful.

> <span id="v22">22</span> And on the day We gather them together We shall say to those who ascribed partners (unto Allah): Where are (now) those partners of your make-believe ?

> <span id="v23">23</span> Then will they have no contention save that they will say: By Allah, our Lord, we never were idolaters.

> <span id="v24">24</span> See how they lie against themselves, and (how) the thing which they devised has failed them!

> <span id="v25">25</span> Of them are some who listen to thee, but We have placed upon their hearts veils, lest they should understand, and in their ears a deafness. If they saw every token they would not believe therein; to the point that, when they come to you to argue with thee, the disbelievers say: This is nothing else than fables of the men of old.

> <span id="v26">26</span> And they forbid (men) from it and avoid it, and they ruin none save themselves, though they perceive not.

> <span id="v27">27</span> If you couldst see when they are set before the Fire and say: Oh, would that we might return! Then would we not deny the revelations of our Lord but we would be of the believers!

> <span id="v28">28</span> No, but that has become clear to them which before they used to hide. And if they were sent back they would return to that which they are forbidden. See! they are liars.

> <span id="v29">29</span> And they say: There is nothing save our life of the world, and we shall not be raised (again).

> <span id="v30">30</span> If you couldst see when they are set before their Lord! He will say: Is not this real ? They will say: Yea, verily, by our Lord! He will say: Taste now the retribution for that you used to disbelieve.

> <span id="v31">31</span> They indeed are losers who deny their meeting with Allah until, when the Hour cometh on them suddenly, they cry: Alas for us, that we neglected it! They bear upon their backs their burdens. Ah, evil is that which they bear!

> <span id="v32">32</span> Naught is the life of the world save a pastime and a spot. Better far is the abode of the Hereafter for those who keep their duty (to Allah). Have you then no sense ?

> <span id="v33">33</span> We know well how their talk grieveth thee, though in truth they deny not you (Muhammad) but evil-doers flout the revelations of Allah.

> <span id="v34">34</span> Messengers indeed have been denied before thee, and they were patient under the denial and the persecution till Our succour reached them. There is none to alter the decisions of Allah. Already there has reached you (somewhat) of the tidings of the messengers (We sent before).

> <span id="v35">35</span> And if their aversion is grievous to thee, then, if you canst, seek a way down into the earth or a ladder to the sky that you mayst bring to them a portent (to convince them all)! - If Allah willed, He could have brought them all together to the guidance - So be not you among the foolish ones.

> <span id="v36">36</span> Only those can accept who hear. As for the dead, Allah will raise them up; then to Him they will be returned.

> <span id="v37">37</span> They say: Why has no portent been sent down upon him from his Lord ? Say: See! Allah is Able to send down a portent. But most of them know not.

> <span id="v38">38</span> There is not an animal in the earth, nor a flying creature flying on two wings, but they are peoples like to you. We have neglected nothing in the Book (of Our decrees). Then to their Lord they will be gathered.

> <span id="v39">39</span> Those who deny Our revelations are deaf and dumb in darkness. Whom Allah will sendeth astray, and whom He will He placeth on a straight path.

> <span id="v40">40</span> Say: Can you see yourselves, if the punishment of Allah come upon you or the Hour come upon you, (calling upon other than Allah) ? Do you then call (for help) to any other than Allah ? (Answer that) if you are truthful.

> <span id="v41">41</span> No, but to Him you call, and He removeth that because of which you call to Him, if He will, and you forget whatever partners you ascribed to Him.

> <span id="v42">42</span> We have sent already to peoples that were before thee, and We visited them with tribulation and adversity, in order that they might grow humble.

> <span id="v43">43</span> If only, when Our disaster came on them, they had been humble! But their hearts were hardened and the devil made all that they used to do seem fair to them!

> <span id="v44">44</span> Then, when they forgot that whereof they had been reminded, We opened to them the gates of all things till, even as they were rejoicing in that which they were given, We seized them unawares, and see! they were dumbfounded.

> <span id="v45">45</span> So of the people who did wrong the last remnant was cut off. Praise be to Allah, Lord of the Worlds!

> <span id="v46">46</span> Say: Have you imagined, if Allah should take away your hearing and your sight and seal your hearts, Who is the God Who could restore it to you save Allah ? See how We display the revelations to them! Yet still they turn away.

> <span id="v47">47</span> Say: Can you see yourselves, if the punishment of Allah come upon you unawares or openly ? Would any perish save wrongdoing folk ?

> <span id="v48">48</span> We send not the messengers save as bearers of good news and warners. Whoso believeth and does right, there shall no fear come upon them neither shall they grieve.

> <span id="v49">49</span> But as for those who deny Our revelations, torment will afflict them for that they used to disobey.

> <span id="v50">50</span> Say (O Muhammad, to the disbelievers): I say not to you (that) I possess the treasures of Allah, nor that I have knowledge of the Unseen; and I say not to you: See! I am an angel. I follow only that which is inspired in me. Say: Are the blind man and the seer equal ? Will you not then take thought ?

> <span id="v51">51</span> Warn hereby those who fear (because they know) that they will be gathered to their Lord, for whom there is no protecting ally nor intercessor beside Him, that they may ward off (evil).

> <span id="v52">52</span> Repel not those who call upon their Lord at morn and evening, seeking His Countenance. You are not accountable for them in aught, nor are they accountable for you in aught, that you shouldst repel them and be of the wrong-doers.

> <span id="v53">53</span> And even so do We try some of them by others, that they say: Are these they whom Allah favoureth among us ? Is not Allah best Aware of the thanksgivers ?

> <span id="v54">54</span> And when those who believe in Our revelations come to thee, say: Peace be to you! Your Lord has prescribed for Himself mercy, that whoso of you does evil through ignorance and repenteth afterward thereof and does right, (for him) see! He is Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v55">55</span> Thus do We expound the revelations that the way of the unrighteous may be manifest.

> <span id="v56">56</span> Say: I am forbidden to worship those on whom you call instead of Allah. Say: I will not follow your desires, for then should I go astray and I should not be of the rightly guided.

> <span id="v57">57</span> Say: I am (relying) on clear proof from my Lord, while you deny Him. I have not that for which you are impatient. The decision is for Allah only. He telleth the truth and He is the Best of Deciders.

> <span id="v58">58</span> Say: If I had that for which you are impatient, then would the case (ere this) have been decided between me and you. Allah is Best Aware of the wrong-doers.

> <span id="v59">59</span> And with Him are the keys of the Invisible. None but He knows them. And He knows what is in the land and the sea. Not a leaf falleth but He knows it, not a grain amid the darkness of the earth, nothing of wet or dry but (it is noted) in a clear record.

> <span id="v60">60</span> He it is Who gathereth you at night and knows that which you commit by day. Then He raiseth you again to life therein, that the term appointed (for you) may be accomplished. And afterward to Him is your return. Then He will proclaim to you what you used to do.

> <span id="v61">61</span> He is the Omnipotent over His slaves. He sendeth guardians over you until, when death cometh to one of you, Our messengers receive him, and they neglect not.

> <span id="v62">62</span> Then are they restored to Allah, their Lord, the Just. Surely His is the judgment. And He is the most swift of reckoners.

> <span id="v63">63</span> Say: Who delivereth you from the darkness of the land and the sea ? Ye call upon Him humbly and in secret, (saying): If we are delivered from this (fear) we truly will be of the thankful.

> <span id="v64">64</span> Say: Allah delivereth you from this and from all affliction. Yet you attribute partners to Him.

> <span id="v65">65</span> Say: He is able to send punishment upon you from above you or from beneath your feet, or to bewilder you with dissension and make you taste the tyranny one of another. See how We display the revelations so that they may understand.

> <span id="v66">66</span> your people (O Muhammad) have denied it, though it is the Truth. Say: I am not put in charge of you.

> <span id="v67">67</span> For every announcement there is a term, and you will come to know.

> <span id="v68">68</span> And when you seest those who meddle with Our revelations, withdraw from them until they meddle with another topic. And if the devil cause you to forget, sit not, after the remembrance, with the congregation of wrong-doers.

> <span id="v69">69</span> Those who ward off (evil) are not accountable for them in aught, but the Reminder (must be given them) that haply they (too) may ward off (evil).

> <span id="v70">70</span> And forsake those who take their religion for a pastime and a jest, and whom the life of the world beguileth. Remind (mankind) hereby lest a soul be destroyed by what it earneth. It has beside Allah no protecting ally nor intercessor, and though it offer every compensation it will not be accepted from it. Those are they who perish by their own deserts. For them is drink of boiling water and a painful doom, because they disbelieved.

> <span id="v71">71</span> Say: Shall we cry, instead of to Allah, to that which neither profiteth us nor hurteth us, and shall we turn back after Allah has guided us, like one bewildered whom the devils have infatuated in the earth, who has companions who invite him to the guidance (saying): Come to us ? Say: See! the guidance of Allah is Guidance, and we are ordered to surrender to the Lord of the Worlds,

> <span id="v72">72</span> And to establish worship and be dutiful to Him, and He it is to Whom you will be gathered.

> <span id="v73">73</span> He it is Who created the heavens and the earth in truth. In the day when He said: Be! it is. His Word is the Truth, and His will be the Sovereignty on the day when the trumpet is blown. Knower of the Invisible and the Visible, He is the Wise, the Aware.

> <span id="v74">74</span> (Remember) when Abraham said to his father Azar: Takest you idols for gods ? See! I see you and your folk in error manifest.

> <span id="v75">75</span> Thus did We show Abraham the kingdom of the heavens and the earth that he might be of those possessing certainty:

> <span id="v76">76</span> When the night grew dark upon him he beheld a star. He said: This is my Lord. But when it set, he said: I love not things that set.

> <span id="v77">77</span> And when he saw the moon uprising, he exclaimed: This is my Lord. But when it set, he said: Unless my Lord guide me, I surely shall become one of the folk who are astray.

> <span id="v78">78</span> And when he saw the sun uprising, he cried: This is my Lord! This is greater! And when it set he exclaimed: O my people! See! I am free from all that you associate (with Him).

> <span id="v79">79</span> See! I have turned my face toward Him Who created the heavens and the earth, as one by nature upright, and I am not of the idolaters.

> <span id="v80">80</span> His people argued with him. He said: Dispute you with me concerning Allah when He has guided me ? I fear not at all that which you set up beside Him unless my Lord willeth aught. My Lord includeth all things in His knowledge. Will you not then remember ?

> <span id="v81">81</span> How should I fear that which you set up beside Him, when you fear not to set up beside Allah that for which He has revealed to you no warrant ? Which of the two factions has more right to safety ? (Answer me that) if you have knowledge.

> <span id="v82">82</span> Those who believe and obscure not their belief by wrongdoing, theirs is safety; and they are rightly guided.

> <span id="v83">83</span> That is Our argument. We gave it to Abraham against his folk. We raise to degrees of wisdom whom We will. See! your Lord is Wise, Aware.

> <span id="v84">84</span> And We bestowed upon him Isaac and Jacob; each of them We guided; and Noah did We guide aforetime; and of his seed (We guided) David and Solomon and Job and Joseph and Moses and Aaron. Thus do We reward the good.

> <span id="v85">85</span> And Zachariah and John and Jesus and Elias. Each one (of them) was of the righteous.

> <span id="v86">86</span> And Ishmael and Elisha and Jonah and Lot. Each one (of them) did We prefer above (Our) creatures,

> <span id="v87">87</span> With some of their forefathers and their offspring and their brethren; and We chose them and guided them to a straight path.

> <span id="v88">88</span> Such is the guidance of Allah wherewith He guideth whom He will of His bondmen. But if they had set up (for worship) aught beside Him, (all) that they did would have been vain.

> <span id="v89">89</span> Those are they to whom We gave the Scripture and command and prophethood. But if these disbelieve therein, then indeed We shall entrust it to a people who will not be disbelievers therein.

> <span id="v90">90</span> Those are they whom Allah guideth, so follow their guidance. Say (O Muhammad, to mankind): I ask of you no fee for it. See! it is nothing but a Reminder to (His) creatures.

> <span id="v91">91</span> And they measure not the power of Allah its true measure when they say: Allah has nothing revealed to a human being. Say (unto the Jews who speak thus): Who revealed the Book which Moses brought, a light and guidance for mankind, which you have put on parchments which you show, but you hide much (thereof), and (by which) you were taught that which you knew not yourselves nor (did) your fathers (know it) ? Say: Allah. Then leave them to their play of cavilling.

> <span id="v92">92</span> And this is a blessed Scripture which We have revealed, confirming that which (was revealed) before it, that you mayst warn the Mother of Villages and those around her. Those who believe in the Hereafter believe herein, and they are careful of their worship.

> <span id="v93">93</span> Who is guilty of more wrong than he who forgeth a lie against Allah, or said: I am inspired, when he is not inspired in aught; and who said: I will reveal the like of that which Allah has revealed ? If you couldst see, when the wrong-doers reach the pangs of death and the angels stretch their hands out (saying): Deliver up your souls. This day you are awarded doom of degradation for that you spake concerning Allah other than the truth, and used to scorn His portents.

> <span id="v94">94</span> Now have you come to Us solitary as We did create you at the first, and you have left behind you all that We bestowed upon you, and We behold not with you those your intercessors, of whom you claimed that they possessed a share in you. Now is the bond between you severed, and that which you presumed has failed you.

> <span id="v95">95</span> See! Allah (it is) Who splitteth the grain of corn and the date-stone (for sprouting). He bringeth forth the living from the dead, and is the bringer-forth of the dead from the living. Such is Allah. How then are you perverted ?

> <span id="v96">96</span> He is the Cleaver of the Daybreak, and He has appointed the night for stillness, and the sun and the moon for reckoning. That is the measuring of the Mighty, the Wise.

> <span id="v97">97</span> And He it is Who has set for you the stars that you may guide your course by them amid the darkness of the land and the sea. We have detailed Our revelations for a people who have knowledge.

> <span id="v98">98</span> And He it is Who has produced you from a single being, and (hath given you) a habitation and a repository. We have detailed Our revelations for a people who have understanding.

> <span id="v99">99</span> He it is Who sendeth down water from the sky, and therewith We bring forth buds of every kind; We bring forth the green blade from which We bring forth the thick-clustered grain; and from the date-palm, from the pollen thereof, spring pendant bunches; and (We bring forth) gardens of grapes, and the olive and the pomegranate, alike and unlike. Look upon the fruit thereof, when they bear fruit, and upon its ripening. See! herein verily are portents for a people who believe.

> <span id="v100">100</span> Yet they ascribe as partners to Him the jinn, although He did create them, and impute falsely, without knowledge, sons and daughters to Him. Glorified be He and High Exalted above (all) that they ascribe (unto Him).

> <span id="v101">101</span> The Originator of the heavens and the earth! How can He have a child, when there is for Him no consort, when He created all things and is Aware of all things ?

> <span id="v102">102</span> Such is Allah, your Lord. There is no God save Him, the Creator of all things, so worship Him. And He taketh care of all things.

> <span id="v103">103</span> Vision comprehendeth Him not, but He comprehendeth (all) vision. He is the Subtile, the Aware.

> <span id="v104">104</span> Proofs have come to you from your Lord, so whoso sees, it is for his own good, and whoso is blind is blind to his own hurt. And I am not a keeper over you.

> <span id="v105">105</span> Thus do We display Our revelations that they may say (unto thee, Muhammad): "Thou hast studied," and that We may make (it) clear for people who have knowledge.

> <span id="v106">106</span> Follow that which is inspired in you from your Lord; there is no God save Him; and turn away from the idolaters.

> <span id="v107">107</span> Had Allah willed, they had not been idolatrous. We have not set you as a keeper over them, nor are you responsible for them.

> <span id="v108">108</span> Revile not those to whom they pray beside Allah lest they wrongfully revile Allah through ignorance. Thus to every nation have We made their deed seem fair. Then to their Lord is their return, and He will tell them what they used to do.

> <span id="v109">109</span> And they swear a solemn oath by Allah that if there come to them a portent they will believe therein. Say; Portents are with Allah and (so is) that which telleth you that if such came to them they would not believe.

> <span id="v110">110</span> We confound their hearts and their eyes. As they believed not therein at the first, We let them wander blindly on in their contumacy.

> <span id="v111">111</span> And though We should send down the angels to them, and the dead should speak to them, and We should gather against them all things in array, they would not believe unless Allah so willed. Howbeit, most of them are ignorant.

> <span id="v112">112</span> Thus have We appointed to every prophet an adversary - devils of humankind and jinn who inspire in one another plausible discourse through guile. If your Lord willed, they would not do so; so leave them alone with their devising;

> <span id="v113">113</span> That the hearts of those who believe not in the Hereafter may incline thereto, and that they may take pleasure therein, and that they may earn what they are earning.

> <span id="v114">114</span> Shall I seek other than Allah for judge, when He it is Who has revealed to you (this) Scripture, fully explained ? Those to whom We gave the Scripture (aforetime) know that it is revealed from your Lord in truth. So be not you (O Muhammad) of the waverers.

> <span id="v115">115</span> Perfected is the Word of your Lord in truth and justice. There is nothing that can change His words. He is the Hearer, the Knower.

> <span id="v116">116</span> If you obeyedst most of those on earth they would mislead you far from Allah's way. They follow nothing but an opinion, and they do but guess.

> <span id="v117">117</span> See! your Lord, He knows best who erreth from His way; and He knows best (who are) the rightly guided.

> <span id="v118">118</span> Eat of that over which the name of Allah has been mentioned, if you are believers in His revelations.

> <span id="v119">119</span> How should you not eat of that over which the name of Allah has been mentioned, when He has explained to you that which is forbidden to you unless you are compelled thereto. But see! many are led astray by their own lusts through ignorance. See! your Lord, He is Best Aware of the transgressors.

> <span id="v120">120</span> Forsake the outwardness of sin and the inwardness thereof. See! those who garner sin will be awarded that which they have earned.

> <span id="v121">121</span> And eat not of that whereon Allah's name has not been mentioned, for see! it is abomination. See! the devils do inspire their minions to dispute with you. But if you obey them, you will be in truth idolaters.

> <span id="v122">122</span> Is he who was dead and We have raised him to life, and set for him a light wherein he walketh among men, as him whose similitude is in utter darkness whence he cannot emerge ? Thus is their conduct made fairseeming for the disbelievers.

> <span id="v123">123</span> And thus have We made in every city great ones of its wicked ones, that they should plot therein. They do but plot against themselves, though they perceive not.

> <span id="v124">124</span> And when a token cometh to them, they say: We will not believe till we are given that which Allah's messengers are given. Allah knows best with whom to place His message. Humiliation from Allah and heavy punishment will smite the guilty for their scheming.

> <span id="v125">125</span> And whomsoever it is Allah's will to guide, He expandeth his bosom to the Surrender, and whomsoever it is His Will to send astray, He maketh his bosom close and narrow as if he were engaged in sheer ascent. Thus Allah layeth ignominy upon those who believe not.

> <span id="v126">126</span> This is the path of your Lord, a straight path. We have detailed Our revelations for a people who take heed.

> <span id="v127">127</span> For them is the abode of peace with their Lord. He will be their Protecting Friend because of what they used to do.

> <span id="v128">128</span> In the day when He will gather them together (He will say): O you assembly of the jinn! Many of humankind did you seduce. And their adherents among humankind will say: Our Lord! We enjoyed one another, but now we have arrived at the appointed term which You appointedst for us. He will say: Fire is your home. Abide therein for ever, save him whom Allah willeth (to deliver). See! your Lord is Wise, Aware.

> <span id="v129">129</span> Thus We let some of the wrong-doers have power over others because of what they are wont to earn.

> <span id="v130">130</span> O you assembly of the jinn and humankind! Came there not to you messengers of your own who recounted to you My tokens and warned you of the meeting of this your Day ? They will say: We testify against ourselves. And the life of the world beguiled them. And they testify against themselves that they were disbelievers.

> <span id="v131">131</span> This is because your Lord destroyeth not the townships arbitrarily while their people are unconscious (of the wrong they do).

> <span id="v132">132</span> For all there will be ranks from what they did. your Lord is not unaware of what they do.

> <span id="v133">133</span> your Lord is the Absolute, the Lord of Mercy. If He will, He can remove you and can cause what He will to follow after you, even as He raised you from the seed of other folk.

> <span id="v134">134</span> See! that which you are promised will surely come to pass, and you cannot escape.

> <span id="v135">135</span> Say (O Muhammad): O my people! Work according to your power. See! I too am working. Thus you will come to know for which of us will be the happy sequel. See! the wrong-doers will not be successful.

> <span id="v136">136</span> They assign to Allah, of the crops and cattle which He created, a portion, and they say: "This is Allah's" - in their make-believe - "and this is for (His) partners in regard to us." Thus that which (they assign) to His partners in them reacheth not Allah and that which (they assign) to Allah goes to their (so-called) partners. Evil is their ordinance.

> <span id="v137">137</span> Thus have their (so-called) partners (of Allah) made the killing of their children to seem fair to many of the idolaters, that they may ruin them and make their faith obscure for them. Had Allah willed (it otherwise), they had not done so. So leave them alone with their devices.

> <span id="v138">138</span> And they say: Such cattle and crops are forbidden. No-one is to eat of them save whom we will - in their make-believe - cattle whose backs are forbidden, cattle over which they mention not the name of Allah. (All that is) a lie against Him. He will repay them for that which they invent.

> <span id="v139">139</span> And they say: That which is in the bellies of such cattle is reserved for our males and is forbidden to our wives; but if it be born dead, then they (all) may be partakers thereof. He will reward them for their attribution (of such ordinances to Him). Lo, He is Wise, Aware.

> <span id="v140">140</span> They are losers who besottedly have slain their children without knowledge, and have forbidden that which Allah bestowed upon them, inventing a lie against Allah. They indeed have gone astray and are not guided.

> <span id="v141">141</span> He it is Who produceth gardens trellised and untrellised, and the date-palm, and crops of divers flavour, and the olive and the pomegranate, like and unlike. Eat you of the fruit thereof when it fruiteth, and pay the due thereof upon the harvest day, and be not prodigal. See! Allah loveth not the prodigals.

> <span id="v142">142</span> And of the cattle (He produceth) some for burdens, some for food. Eat of that which Allah has bestowed upon you, and follow not the footsteps of the devil, for see! he is an open foe to you.

> <span id="v143">143</span> Eight pairs: Of the sheep twain, and of the goats twain. Say: Hath He forbidden the two males or the two females, or that which the wombs of the two females contain ? Expound to me (the case) with knowledge, if you are truthful.

> <span id="v144">144</span> And of the camels twain and of the oxen twain. Say: Hath He forbidden the two males or the two females, or that which the wombs of the two females contain; or were you by to witness when Allah commanded you (all) this ? Then who doth greater wrong than he who deviseth a lie concerning Allah, that he may lead mankind astray without knowledge. See! Allah guideth not wrongdoing folk.

> <span id="v145">145</span> Say: I find not in that which is revealed to me aught prohibited to an eater that he eat thereof, except it be carrion, or blood poured forth, or swineflesh - for that verily is foul - or the abomination which was immolated to the name of other than Allah. But whoso is compelled (thereto), neither craving nor transgressing, (for him) see! your Lord is Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v146">146</span> Unto those who are Jews We forbade every animal with claws. And of the oxen and the sheep forbade We to them the fat thereof save that upon the backs or the entrails, or that which is mixed with the bone. That we awarded them for their rebellion. And see! we verily are truthful.

> <span id="v147">147</span> So if they give the lie to you (Muhammad), say: Your Lord is a Lord of All- Embracing Mercy, and His wrath will never be withdrawn from guilty folk.

> <span id="v148">148</span> They who are idolaters will say: Had Allah willed, we had not ascribed (unto Him) partners neither had our fathers, nor had we forbidden aught. Thus did those who were before them give the lie (to Allah's messengers) till they tasted of the fear of Us. Say: Have you any knowledge that you can adduce for Us ? See! you follow nothing but an opinion, See! you do but guess.

> <span id="v149">149</span> Say - For Allah's is the final argument - Had He willed He could indeed have guided all of you.

> <span id="v150">150</span> Say: Come, bring your witnesses who can bear witness that Allah forbade (all) this. And if they bear witness, do not you bear witness with them. Follow you not the whims of those who deny Our revelations, those who believe not in the Hereafter and deem (others) equal with their Lord.

> <span id="v151">151</span> Say: Come, I will recite to you that which your Lord has made a sacred duty for you: That you ascribe no thing as partner to Him and that you do good to parents, and that you slay not your children because of penury - We provide for you and for them - and that you draw not nigh to lewd things whether open or concealed. And that you slay not the life which Allah has made sacred, save in the course of justice. This He has command you, in order that you may discern.

> <span id="v152">152</span> And approach not the wealth of the orphan save with that which is better, till he reach maturity. Give full measure and full weight, in justice. We task not any soul beyond its scope. And if you give your word, do justice thereunto, even though it be (against) a kinsman; and fulfil the covenant of Allah. This He commandeth you that haply you may remember.

> <span id="v153">153</span> And (He commandeth you, saying): This is My straight path, so follow it. Follow not other ways, lest you be parted from His way. This has He ordained for you, that you may ward off (evil).

> <span id="v154">154</span> Again, We gave the Scripture to Moses, complete for him who would do good, an explanation of all things, a guidance and a mercy, that they might believe in the meeting with their Lord.

> <span id="v155">155</span> And this is a blessed Scripture which We have revealed. So follow it and ward off (evil), that you may find mercy.

> <span id="v156">156</span> Lest you should say: The Scripture was revealed only to two sects before us, and we in sooth were unaware of what they read;

> <span id="v157">157</span> Or lest you should say: If the Scripture had been revealed to us, we surely had been better guided than are they. Now has there come to you a clear proof from your Lord, a guidance and mercy; and who does greater wrong than he who denies the revelations of Allah, and turneth away from them ? We award to those who turn away from Our revelations an evil doom because of their aversion.

> <span id="v158">158</span> Wait they, indeed, for nothing less than that the angels should come to them, or your Lord should come, or there should come one of the portents from your Lord ? In the day when one of the portents from your Lord cometh, its belief availeth nothing a soul which theretofore believed not, nor in its belief earned good (by works). Say: Wait ye! See! We (too) are waiting.

> <span id="v159">159</span> See! As for those who sunder their religion and become schismatics, no concern at all hast you with them. Their case will go to Allah, Who then will tell them what they used to do.

> <span id="v160">160</span> Whoso bringeth a good deed will receive tenfold the like thereof, while whoso bringeth an ill-deed will be awarded but the like thereof; and they will not be wronged.

> <span id="v161">161</span> Say: See! As for me, my Lord has guided me to a straight path, a right religion, the community of Abraham, the upright, who was no idolater.

> <span id="v162">162</span> Say: See! my worship and my sacrifice and my living and my dying are for Allah, Lord of the Worlds.

> <span id="v163">163</span> He has no partner. This am I commanded, and I am first of those who surrender (unto Him).

> <span id="v164">164</span> Say: Shall I seek another than Allah for Lord, when He is Lord of all things ? Each soul earneth only on its own account, nor doth any laden bear another's load. Then to your Lord is your return and He will tell you that wherein you differed.

> <span id="v165">165</span> He it is Who has placed you as viceroys of the earth and has exalted some of you in rank above others, that He may try you by (the test of) that which He has given you. See! your Lord is swift in prosecution, and See! He verily is Forgiving, Merciful.
