---
layout: surah
title: Surah 9
search: true
permalink: /quran/9/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> Freedom from obligation (is proclaimed) from Allah and His messenger toward those of the idolaters with whom you made a treaty.

> <span id="v2">2</span> Travel freely in the land four months, and know that you cannot escape Allah and that Allah will confound the disbelievers (in His Guidance).

> <span id="v3">3</span> And a proclamation from Allah and His messenger to all men on the day of the Greater Pilgrimage that Allah is free from obligation to the idolaters, and (so is) His messenger. So, if you repent, it will be better for you; but if you are averse, then know that you cannot escape Allah. Give tidings (O Muhammad) of a painful doom to those who disbelieve,

> <span id="v4">4</span> Excepting those of the idolaters with whom you (Muslims) have a treaty, and who have since abated nothing of your right nor have supported anyone against you. (As for these), fulfil their treaty to them till their term. See! Allah loveth those who keep their duty (to Him).

> <span id="v5">5</span> Then, when the sacred months have passed, slay the idolaters wherever you find them, and take them (captive), and besiege them, and prepare for them each ambush. But if they repent and establish worship and pay the poor-due, then leave their way free. See! Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v6">6</span> And if anyone of the idolaters seeketh your protection (O Muhammad), then protect him so that he may hear the Word of Allah, and afterward convey him to his place of safety. That is because they are a folk who know not.

> <span id="v7">7</span> How can there be a treaty with Allah and with His messenger for the idolaters save those with whom you made a treaty at the Inviolable Place of Worship ? So long as they are true to you, be true to them. See! Allah loveth those who keep their duty.

> <span id="v8">8</span> How (can there be any treaty for the others) when, if they have the upper hand of you, they regard not pact nor honour in respect of you ? They satisfy you with their mouths the while their hearts refuse. And most of them are wrongdoers.

> <span id="v9">9</span> They have purchased with the revelations of Allah a little gain, so they debar (men) from His way. See! evil is that which they are wont to do.

> <span id="v10">10</span> And they observe toward a believer neither pact nor honour. These are they who are transgressors.

> <span id="v11">11</span> But if they repent and establish worship and pay the poor-due, then are they your brethren in religion. We detail Our revelations for a people who have knowledge.

> <span id="v12">12</span> And if they break their pledges after their treaty (hath been made with you) and assail your religion, then fight the heads of disbelief - See! they have no binding oaths - in order that they may desist.

> <span id="v13">13</span> Will you not fight a folk who broke their solemn pledges, and purposed to drive out the messenger and did attack you first ? What! Fear you them ? Now Allah has more right that you should fear Him, if you are believers

> <span id="v14">14</span> Fight them! Allah will chastise them at your hands, and He will lay them low and give you victory over them, and He will heal the breasts of folk who are believers.

> <span id="v15">15</span> And He will remove the anger of their hearts. Allah relenteth toward whom He will. Allah is Knower, Wise.

> <span id="v16">16</span> Or deemed you that you would be left (in peace) when Allah yet knows not those of you who strive, choosing for familiar none save Allah and His messenger and the believers ? Allah is Informed of what you do.

> <span id="v17">17</span> It is not for the idolaters to tend Allah's sanctuaries, bearing witness against themselves of disbelief. As for such, their works are vain and in the Fire they will abide.

> <span id="v18">18</span> He only shall tend Allah's sanctuaries who believes in Allah and the Last Day and observeth proper worship and payeth the poor-due and fears none save Allah. For such (only) is it possible that they can be of the rightly guided.

> <span id="v19">19</span> Count you the slaking of a pilgrim's thirst and tendance of the Inviolable Place of Worship as (equal to the worth of) him who believes in Allah and the Last Day, and striveth in the way of Allah ? They are not equal in the sight of Allah. Allah guides not wrongdoing folk.

> <span id="v20">20</span> Those who believe, and have left their homes and striven with their wealth and their lives in Allah's way are of much greater worth in Allah's sight. These are they who are triumphant.

> <span id="v21">21</span> Their Lord gives them good tidings of mercy from Him, and acceptance, and Gardens where enduring pleasure will be theirs;

> <span id="v22">22</span> There they will abide for ever. See! with Allah there is immense reward.

> <span id="v23">23</span> O you who believe! Choose not your fathers nor your brethren for friends if they take pleasure in disbelief rather than faith. Whoso of you taketh them for friends, such are wrong-doers.

> <span id="v24">24</span> Say: If your fathers, and your sons, and your brethren, and your wives, and your tribe, and the wealth you have acquired, and merchandise for which you fear that there will no sale, and dwellings you desire are dearer to you than Allah and His messenger and striving in His way: then wait till Allah brings His command to pass. Allah guides not wrongdoing folk.

> <span id="v25">25</span> Allah has given you victory on many fields and on the day of Huneyn, when you exulted in your multitude but it availed you nothing, and the earth, vast as it is, was straitened for you; then you turned back in flight;

> <span id="v26">26</span> Then Allah sent His peace of reassurance down upon His messenger and upon the believers, and sent down hosts you could not see, and punished those who disbelieved. Such is the reward of disbelievers.

> <span id="v27">27</span> Then afterward Allah will relent toward whom He will; for Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v28">28</span> O you who believe! The idolaters only are unclean. So let them not come near the Inviolable Place of Worship after this their year. If you fear poverty (from the loss of their merchandise) Allah shall preserve you of His bounty if He will. See! Allah is Knower, Wise.

> <span id="v29">29</span> Fight against such of those who have been given the Scripture as believe not in Allah nor the Last Day, and forbid not that which Allah has forbidden by His messenger, and follow not the Religion of Truth, until they pay the tribute readily, being brought low.

> <span id="v30">30</span> And the Jews say: Ezra is the son of Allah, and the Christians say: The Messiah is the son of Allah. That is their saying with their mouths. They imitate the saying of those who disbelieved of old. Allah (Himself) fighteth against them. How perverse are they!

> <span id="v31">31</span> They have taken as lords beside Allah their rabbis and their monks and the Messiah son of Mary, when they were bidden to worship only One God. There is no God save Him. Be He Glorified from all that they ascribe as partner (to Him)!

> <span id="v32">32</span> Fain would they put out the light of Allah with their mouths, but Allah disdaineth (aught) save that He shall perfect His light, however much the disbelievers are averse.

> <span id="v33">33</span> He it is Who has sent His messenger with the guidance and the Religion of Truth, that He may cause it to prevail over all religion, however much the idolaters may be averse.

> <span id="v34">34</span> O you who believe! See! many of the (Jewish) rabbis and the (Christian) monks devour the wealth of mankind wantonly and debar (men) from the way of Allah. They who hoard up gold and silver and spend it not in the way of Allah, to them give tidings (O Muhammad) of a painful doom,

> <span id="v35">35</span> On the day when it will (all) be heated in the fire of hell, and their foreheads and their flanks and their backs will be branded therewith (and it will be said to them): Here is that which you hoarded for yourselves. Now taste of what you used to hoard.

> <span id="v36">36</span> See! the number of the months with Allah is twelve months by Allah's ordinance in the day that He created the heavens and the earth. Four of them are sacred: that is the right religion. So wrong not yourselves in them. And wage war on all of the idolaters as they are waging war on all of you. And know that Allah is with those who keep their duty (to Him).

> <span id="v37">37</span> Postponement (of a sacred month) is only an excess of disbelief whereby those who disbelieve are misled; they allow it one year and forbid it (another) year, that they may make up the number of the months which Allah has hallowed, so that they allow that which Allah has forbidden. The evil of their deeds is made fairseeming to them. Allah guides not the disbelieving folk.

> <span id="v38">38</span> O you who believe! What ails you that when it is said to you: Go forth in the way of Allah, you are bowed down to the ground with heaviness. Take you pleasure in the life of the world rather than in the Hereafter ? The comfort of the life of the world is but little in the Hereafter.

> <span id="v39">39</span> If you go not forth He will afflict you with a painful doom, and will choose instead of you a folk other than you. Ye cannot harm Him at all. Allah is Able to do all things.

> <span id="v40">40</span> If you help him not, still Allah helped him when those who disbelieve drove him forth, the second of two; when they two were in the cave, when he said to his comrade: Grieve not. See! Allah is with us. Then Allah caused His peace of reassurance to descend upon him and supported him with hosts you cannot see, and made the word of those who disbelieved the nethermost, while Allah's Word it was that became the uppermost. Allah is Mighty, Wise.

> <span id="v41">41</span> Go forth, light-armed and heavy-armed, and strive with your wealth and your lives in the way of Allah! That is best for you if you but knew.

> <span id="v42">42</span> Had it been a near adventure and an easy journey they had followed you, but the distance seemed too far for them. Yet will they swear by Allah (saying): If we had been able we would surely have set out with you. They destroy their souls, and Allah knows that they verily are liars.

> <span id="v43">43</span> Allah forgive you (O Muhammad)! Wherefor didst you grant them leave ere those who told the truth were manifest to you and you didst know the liars ?

> <span id="v44">44</span> Those who believe in Allah and the Last Day ask no leave of you lest they should strive with their wealth and their lives. Allah is Aware of those who keep their duty (to Him).

> <span id="v45">45</span> They alone ask leave of you who believe not in Allah and the Last Day, and whose hearts feel doubt, so in their doubt they waver.

> <span id="v46">46</span> And if they had wished to go forth they would assuredly have made ready some equipment, but Allah was averse to their being sent forth and held them back and it was said (to them): Sit you with the sedentary!

> <span id="v47">47</span> Had they gone forth among you they had added to you nothing save trouble and had hurried to and fro among you, seeking to cause sedition among you; and among you there are some who would have listened to them. Allah is Aware of evil- doers.

> <span id="v48">48</span> Aforetime they sought to cause sedition and raised difficulties for you till the Truth came and the decree of Allah was made manifest, though they were loth.

> <span id="v49">49</span> Of them is he who said: Grant me leave (to stay at home) and tempt me not. Surely it is into temptation that they (thus) have fallen. See! hell verily is all around the disbelievers.

> <span id="v50">50</span> If good befalleth you (O Muhammad) it afflicteth them, and if calamity befalleth you, they say: We took precaution, and they turn away well pleased.

> <span id="v51">51</span> Say: Naught befalleth us save that which Allah has decreed for us. He is our Protecting Friend. In Allah let believers put their trust!

> <span id="v52">52</span> Say: Can you await for us aught save one of two good things (death or victory in Allah's way) ? while we await for you that Allah will afflict you with a doom from Him or at our hands. Await then! See! We are awaiting with you.

> <span id="v53">53</span> Say: Pay (your contribution), willingly or unwillingly, it will not be accepted from you. See! you were ever contrary folk.

> <span id="v54">54</span> And nothing preventeth that their contributions should be accepted from them save that they have disbelieved in Allah and in His messenger, and they come not to worship save as idlers, and pay not (their contribution) save reluctantly.

> <span id="v55">55</span> So let not their riches nor their children please you (O Muhammad). Allah thereby intendeth but to punish them in the life of the world and that their souls shall pass away while they are disbelievers.

> <span id="v56">56</span> And they swear by Allah that they are in truth of you, when they are not of you, but they are folk who are afraid.

> <span id="v57">57</span> Had they but found a refuge, or caverns, or a place to enter, they surely had resorted thither swift as runaways.

> <span id="v58">58</span> And of them is he who defameth you in the matter of the alms. If they are given thereof they are content, and if they are not given thereof, behold! they are enraged.

> <span id="v59">59</span> (How much more seemly) had they been content with that which Allah and His messenger had given them and had said: Allah sufficeth us. Allah will give us of His bounty, and (also) His messenger. Unto Allah we are suppliants.

> <span id="v60">60</span> The alms are only for the poor and the needy, and those who collect them, and those whose hearts are to be reconciled, and to free the captives and the debtors, and for the cause of Allah, and (for) the wayfarer; a duty imposed by Allah. Allah is Knower, Wise.

> <span id="v61">61</span> And of them are those who vex the Prophet and say: He is only a hearer. Say: A hearer of good for you, who believes in Allah and is true to the believers, and a mercy for such of you as believe. Those who vex the messenger of Allah, for them there is a painful doom.

> <span id="v62">62</span> They swear by Allah to you (Muslims) to please you, but Allah, with His messenger, has more right that they should please Him if they are believers.

> <span id="v63">63</span> Know they not that whoso opposeth Allah and His messenger, his verily is fire of hell, to abide therein ? That is the extreme abasement.

> <span id="v64">64</span> The hypocrites fear lest a surah should be revealed concerning them, proclaiming what is in their hearts. Say: Scoff (your fill)! See! Allah is disclosing what you fear.

> <span id="v65">65</span> And if you ask them (O Muhammad) they will say: We did but talk and jest. Say: Was it at Allah and His revelations and His messenger that you did scoff ?

> <span id="v66">66</span> Make no excuse. Ye have disbelieved after your (confession of) belief. If We forgive a party of you, a party of you We shall punish because they have been guilty.

> <span id="v67">67</span> The hypocrites, both men and women, proceed one from another. They enjoin the wrong, and they forbid the right, and they withhold their hands (from spending for the cause of Allah). They forget Allah, so He has forgotten them. See! the hypocrites, they are the transgressors.

> <span id="v68">68</span> Allah promiseth the hypocrites, both men and women, and the disbelievers fire of hell for their abode. It will suffice them. Allah curseth them, and theirs is lasting torment.

> <span id="v69">69</span> Even as those before you who were mightier than you in strength, and more affluent than you in wealth and children. They enjoyed their lot awhile, so you enjoy your lot awhile even as those before you did enjoy their lot awhile. And you prate even as they prated. Such are they whose works have perished in the world and the Hereafter. Such are they who are the losers.

> <span id="v70">70</span> Hath not the fame of those before them reached them - the folk of Noah, A'ad, Thamud, the folk of Abraham, the dwellers of Midian and the disasters (which befell them) ? Their messengers (from Allah) came to them with proofs (of Allah's Sovereignty). So Allah surely wronged them not, but they did wrong themselves.

> <span id="v71">71</span> And the believers, men and women, are protecting friends one of another; they enjoin the right and forbid the wrong, and they establish worship and they pay the poor-due, and they obey Allah and His messenger. As for these, Allah will have mercy on them. See! Allah is Mighty, Wise.

> <span id="v72">72</span> Allah promiseth to the believers, men and women, Gardens underneath which rivers flow, wherein they will abide - blessed dwellings in Gardens of Eden. And - greater (far)! - acceptance from Allah. That is the supreme triumph.

> <span id="v73">73</span> O Prophet! Strive against the disbelievers and the hypocrites! Be harsh with them. Their ultimate abode is hell, a hapless journey's end.

> <span id="v74">74</span> They swear by Allah that they said nothing (wrong), yet they did say the word of disbelief, and did disbelieve after their Surrender (to Allah). And they purposed that which they could not attain, and they sought revenge only that Allah by His messenger should enrich them of His bounty. If they repent it will be better for them; and if they turn away, Allah will afflict them with a painful doom in the world and the Hereafter, and they have no protecting friend nor helper in the earth.

> <span id="v75">75</span> And of them is he who made a covenant with Allah (saying): If He give us of His bounty we will give alms and become of the righteous.

> <span id="v76">76</span> Yet when He gave them of His bounty, they hoarded it and turned away, averse;

> <span id="v77">77</span> So He has made the consequence (to be) hypocrisy in their hearts until the day when they shall meet Him, because they broke their word to Allah that they promised Him, and because they lied.

> <span id="v78">78</span> Know they not that Allah knows both their secret and the thought that they confide, and that Allah is the Knower of Things Hidden ?

> <span id="v79">79</span> Those who point at such of the believers as give the alms willingly and such as can find nothing to give but their endeavours, and deride them - Allah (Himself) derideth them. Theirs will be a painful doom.

> <span id="v80">80</span> Ask forgiveness for them (O Muhammad), or ask not forgiveness for them; though you ask forgiveness for them seventy times Allah will not forgive them. That is because they disbelieved in Allah and His messenger, and Allah guides not wrongdoing folk.

> <span id="v81">81</span> Those who were left behind rejoiced at sitting still behind the messenger of Allah, and were averse to striving with their wealth and their lives in Allah's way. And they said: Go not forth in the heat! Say: The fire of hell is more intense of heat, if they but understood.

> <span id="v82">82</span> Then let them laugh a little: they will weep much, as the reward of what they used to earn.

> <span id="v83">83</span> If Allah bring you back (from the campaign) to a party of them and they ask of you leave to go out (to fight), then say to them: Ye shall never more go out with me nor fight with me against a foe. Ye were content with sitting still the first time. So sit still, with the useless.

> <span id="v84">84</span> And never (O Muhammad) pray for one of them who dieth, nor stand by his grave. See! they disbelieved in Allah and His messenger, and they died while they were evil-doers.

> <span id="v85">85</span> Let not their wealth nor their children please you! Allah purposeth only to punish them thereby in the world, and that their souls shall pass away while they are disbelievers.

> <span id="v86">86</span> And when a surah is revealed (which said): Believe in Allah and strive along with His messenger, the men of wealth among them still ask leave of you and say: Suffer us to be with those who sit (at home).

> <span id="v87">87</span> They are content that they should be with the useless and their hearts are sealed, so that they apprehend not.

> <span id="v88">88</span> But the messenger and those who believe with him strive with their wealth and their lives. Such are they for whom are the good things. Such are they who are the successful.

> <span id="v89">89</span> Allah has made ready for them Gardens underneath which rivers flow, wherein they will abide. That is the supreme triumph.

> <span id="v90">90</span> And those among the wandering Arabs who had an excuse came in order that permission might be granted them. And those who lied to Allah and His messenger sat at home. A painful doom will fall on those of them who disbelieve.

> <span id="v91">91</span> Not to the weak nor to the sick nor to those who can find nothing to spend is any fault (to be imputed though they stay at home) if they are true to Allah and His messenger. Not to the good is there any road (of blame). Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v92">92</span> Nor to those whom, when they came to you (asking) that you shouldst mount them, you didst tell: I cannot find whereon to mount you. They turned back with eyes flowing with tears, for sorrow that they could not find the means to spend.

> <span id="v93">93</span> The road (of blame) is only against those who ask for leave of you (to stay at home) when they are rich. They are content to be with the useless. Allah has sealed their hearts so that they know not.

> <span id="v94">94</span> They will make excuse to you (Muslims) when you return to them. Say: Make no excuse, for we shall not believe you. Allah has told us tidings of you. Allah and His messenger will see your conduct, and then you will be brought back to Him Who knows the Invisible as well as the Visible, and He will tell you what you used to do.

> <span id="v95">95</span> They will swear by Allah to you, when you return to them, that you may let them be. Let them be, for see! they are unclean, and their abode is hell as the reward for what they used to earn.

> <span id="v96">96</span> They swear to you, that you may accept them. Though you accept them. Allah verily accepteth not wrongdoing folk.

> <span id="v97">97</span> The wandering Arabs are more hard in disbelief and hypocrisy, and more likely to be ignorant of the limits which Allah has revealed to His messenger. And Allah is Knower, Wise.

> <span id="v98">98</span> And of the wandering Arabs there is he who taketh that which he expendeth (for the cause of Allah) as a loss, and awaiteth (evil) turns of fortune for you (that he may be rid of it). The evil turn of fortune will be theirs. Allah is Hearer, Knower.

> <span id="v99">99</span> And of the wandering Arabs there is he who believes in Allah and the Last Day, and taketh that which he expendeth and also the prayers of the messenger as acceptable offerings in the sight of Allah. See! verily it is an acceptable offering for them. Allah will bring them into His mercy. See! Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v100">100</span> And the first to lead the way, of the Muhajirin and the Ansar, and those who followed them in goodness - Allah is well pleased with them and they are well pleased with Him, and He has made ready for them Gardens underneath which rivers flow, wherein they will abide for ever. That is the supreme triumph.

> <span id="v101">101</span> And among those around you of the wandering Arabs there are hypocrites, and among the townspeople of Al-Madinah (there are some who) persist in hypocrisy whom you (O Muhammad) knowest not. We, We know them, and We shall chastise them twice; then they will be relegated to a painful doom.

> <span id="v102">102</span> And (there are) others who have acknowledged their faults. They mixed a righteous action with another that was bad. It may be that Allah will relent toward them. See! Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v103">103</span> Take alms of their wealth, wherewith you mayst purify them and mayst make them grow, and pray for them. See! your prayer is an assuagement for them. Allah is Hearer, Knower.

> <span id="v104">104</span> Know they not that Allah is He Who accepteth repentance from His bondmen and taketh the alms, and that Allah is He Who is the Relenting, the Merciful.

> <span id="v105">105</span> And say (to them): Act! Allah will behold your actions, and (so will) His messenger and the believers, and you will be brought back to the Knower of the Invisible and the Visible, and He will tell you what you used to do.

> <span id="v106">106</span> And (there are) others who await Allah's decree, whether He will punish them or will forgive them. Allah is Knower, Wise.

> <span id="v107">107</span> And as for those who chose a place of worship out of opposition and disbelief, and in order to cause dissent among the believers, and as an outpost for those who warred against Allah and His messenger aforetime, they will surely swear: We purposed nothing save good. Allah bears witness that they verily are liars.

> <span id="v108">108</span> Never stand (to pray) there. A place of worship which was found upon duty (to Allah) from the first day is more worthy that you shouldst stand (to pray) therein, wherein are men who love to purify themselves. Allah loveth the purifiers.

> <span id="v109">109</span> Is he who founded his building upon duty to Allah and His good pleasure better; or he who founded his building on the brink of a crumbling, overhanging precipice so that it toppled with him into the fire of hell ? Allah guides not wrongdoing folk.

> <span id="v110">110</span> The building which they built will never cease to be a misgiving in their hearts unless their hearts be torn to pieces. Allah is Knower, Wise.

> <span id="v111">111</span> See! Allah has bought from the believers their lives and their wealth because the Garden will be theirs: they shall fight in the way of Allah and shall slay and be slain. It is a promise which is binding on Him in the Torah and the Gospel and the Qur'an. Who fulfilleth His covenant better than Allah ? Rejoice then in your bargain that you have made, for that is the supreme triumph.

> <span id="v112">112</span> (Triumphant) are those who turn repentant (to Allah), those who serve (Him), those who praise (Him), those who fast, those who bow down, those who fall prostrate (in worship), those who enjoin the right and who forbid the wrong and those who keep the limits (ordained) of Allah - And give glad tidings to believers!

> <span id="v113">113</span> It is not for the Prophet, and those who believe, to pray for the forgiveness of idolaters even though they may be near of kin (to them) after it has become clear that they are people of hell-fire.

> <span id="v114">114</span> The prayer of Abraham for the forgiveness of his father was only because of a promise he had promised him, but when it had become clear to him that he (his father) was an enemy to Allah he (Abraham) disowned him. See! Abraham was soft of heart, long-suffering.

> <span id="v115">115</span> It was never Allah's (part) that He should send a folk astray after He had guided them until He had made clear to them what they should avoid. See! Allah is Aware of all things.

> <span id="v116">116</span> See! Allah! Unto Him belongeth the Sovereignty of the heavens and the earth. He quickeneth and He gives death. And you have, instead of Allah, no protecting friend nor helper.

> <span id="v117">117</span> Allah has turned in mercy to the Prophet, and to the Muhajirin and the Ansar who followed him in the hour of hardship. After the hearts of a party of them had almost swerved aside, then turned He to them in mercy. See! He is Full of Pity, Merciful for them.

> <span id="v118">118</span> And to the three also (did He turn in mercy) who were left behind, when the earth, vast as it is, was straitened for them, and their own souls were straitened for them till they bethought them that there is no refuge from Allah save toward Him. Then turned He to them in mercy that they (too) might turn (repentant to Him). See! Allah! He is the Relenting, the Merciful.

> <span id="v119">119</span> O you who believe! Be careful of your duty to Allah, and be with the truthful.

> <span id="v120">120</span> It is not for the townsfolk of Al-Madinah and for those around them of the wandering Arabs so stay behind the messenger of Allah and prefer their lives to his life. That is because neither thirst nor toil nor hunger afflicteth them in the way of Allah, nor step they any step that angereth the disbelievers, nor gain they from the enemy a gain, but a good deed is recorded for them therefor. See! Allah loseth not the wages of the good.

> <span id="v121">121</span> Nor spend they any spending, small or great, nor do they cross a valley, but it is recorded for them, that Allah may repay them the best of what they used to do.

> <span id="v122">122</span> And the believers should not all go out to fight. Of every troop of them, a party only should go forth, that they (who are left behind) may gain sound knowledge in religion, and that they may warn their folk when they return to them, so that they may beware.

> <span id="v123">123</span> O you who believe! Fight those of the disbelievers who are near to you, and let them find harshness in you, and know that Allah is with those who keep their duty (to Him).

> <span id="v124">124</span> And whenever a surah is revealed there are some of them who say: Which one of you has thus increased in faith ? As for those who believe, it has increased them in faith and they rejoice (therefor).

> <span id="v125">125</span> But as for those in whose hearts is disease, it only addeth wickedness to their wickedness, and they die while they are disbelievers.

> <span id="v126">126</span> See they not that they are tested once or twice in every year ? Still they turn not in repentance, neither pay they heed.

> <span id="v127">127</span> And whenever a surah is revealed, they look one at another (as who should say): Doth anybody see you ? Then they turn away. Allah turns away their hearts because they are a folk who understand not.

> <span id="v128">128</span> There has come to you a messenger, (one) of yourselves, to whom aught that you are overburdened is grievous, full of concern for you, for the believers full of pity, merciful.

> <span id="v129">129</span> Now, if they turn away (O Muhammad) say: Allah sufficeth me. There is no God save Him. In Him have I put my trust, and He is Lord of the Tremendous Throne.
