---
layout: surah
title: Surah 15
search: true
permalink: /quran/15/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> Alif. Lam. Ra. These are verses of the Scripture and a plain Reading.

> <span id="v2">2</span> It may be that those who disbelieve wish ardently that they were Muslims.

> <span id="v3">3</span> Let them eat and enjoy life, and let (false) hope beguile them. They will come to know!

> <span id="v4">4</span> And We destroyed no township but there was a known decree for it.

> <span id="v5">5</span> No nation can outstrip its term nor can they lag behind.

> <span id="v6">6</span> And they say: O you to whom the Reminder is revealed, see! you are indeed a madman!

> <span id="v7">7</span> Why bringest you not angels to us, if you are of the truthful ?

> <span id="v8">8</span> We send not down the angels save with the Fact, and in that case (the disbelievers) would not be tolerated.

> <span id="v9">9</span> See! We, even We, reveal the Reminder, and see! We verily are its Guardian.

> <span id="v10">10</span> We verily sent (messengers) before you among the factions of the men of old.

> <span id="v11">11</span> And never came there to them a messenger but they did mock him.

> <span id="v12">12</span> Thus do We make it traverse the hearts of the guilty:

> <span id="v13">13</span> They believe not therein, though the example of the men of old has gone before.

> <span id="v14">14</span> And even if We opened to them a gate of heaven and they kept mounting through it,

> <span id="v15">15</span> They would say: Our sight is wrong - nay, but we are folk bewitched.

> <span id="v16">16</span> And verily in the heaven we have set mansions of the stars, and We have beautified it for beholders.

> <span id="v17">17</span> And We have guarded it from every outcast devil,

> <span id="v18">18</span> Save him who stealeth the hearing, and them does a clear flame pursue.

> <span id="v19">19</span> And the earth have We spread out, and placed therein firm hills, and caused each seemly thing to grow therein.

> <span id="v20">20</span> And we have given to you livelihoods therein, and to those for whom you provide not.

> <span id="v21">21</span> And there is not a thing but with Us are the stores thereof. And we send it not down save in appointed measure.

> <span id="v22">22</span> And We send the winds fertilising, and cause water to descend from the sky, and give it you to drink. It is not you who are the holders of the store thereof.

> <span id="v23">23</span> See! and it is We, even We, Who quicken and give death, and We are the Inheritor.

> <span id="v24">24</span> And verily We know the eager among you and verily We know the laggards.

> <span id="v25">25</span> See! your Lord will gather them together. See! He is Wise, Aware.

> <span id="v26">26</span> Verily We created man of potter's clay of black mud altered,

> <span id="v27">27</span> And the jinn did We create aforetime of essential fire.

> <span id="v28">28</span> And (remember) when your Lord said to the angels: See! I am creating a mortal out of potter's clay of black mud altered,

> <span id="v29">29</span> So, when I have made him and have breathed into him of My Spirit, do you fall down, prostrating yourselves to him.

> <span id="v30">30</span> So the angels fell prostrate, all of them together

> <span id="v31">31</span> Save Iblis. He refused to be among the prostrate.

> <span id="v32">32</span> He said: O Iblis! What ails you that you are not among the prostrate ?

> <span id="v33">33</span> He said: I am not one to prostrate myself to a mortal whom You hast created out of potter's clay of black mud altered!

> <span id="v34">34</span> He said: Then go you forth from hence, for see! you are outcast.

> <span id="v35">35</span> And see! the curse shall be upon you till the Day of Judgment.

> <span id="v36">36</span> He said: My Lord! Reprieve me till the day when they are raised.

> <span id="v37">37</span> He said: Then see! you are of those reprieved

> <span id="v38">38</span> Till the Day of appointed time.

> <span id="v39">39</span> He said: My Lord! Because You hast sent me astray, I verily shall adorn the path of error for them in the earth, and shall mislead them every one,

> <span id="v40">40</span> Save such of them as are your perfectly devoted slaves.

> <span id="v41">41</span> He said: This is a right course incumbent upon Me:

> <span id="v42">42</span> See! as for My slaves, you hast no power over any of them save such of the contrary as follow you,

> <span id="v43">43</span> And see! for all such, hell will be the promised place.

> <span id="v44">44</span> It has seven gates, and each gate has an appointed portion.

> <span id="v45">45</span> See! those who ward off (evil) are among gardens and watersprings.

> <span id="v46">46</span> (And it is said to them): Enter them in peace, secure.

> <span id="v47">47</span> And We remove whatever rancour may be in their breasts. As brethren, face to face, (they rest) on couches raised.

> <span id="v48">48</span> Toil cometh not to them there, nor will they be expelled from thence.

> <span id="v49">49</span> Announce, (O Muhammad) to My slaves that verily I am the Forgiving, the Merciful,

> <span id="v50">50</span> And that My doom is the dolorous doom.

> <span id="v51">51</span> And tell them of Abraham's guests,

> <span id="v52">52</span> (How) when they came in to him, and said: Peace. He said: See! we are afraid of you.

> <span id="v53">53</span> They said: Be not afraid! See! we bring you good tidings of a boy possessing wisdom.

> <span id="v54">54</span> He said: Bring you me good tidings (of a son) when old age has overtaken me ? Of what then can you bring good tidings ?

> <span id="v55">55</span> They said: We bring you good tidings in truth. So be not you of the despairing.

> <span id="v56">56</span> He said: And who despaireth of the mercy of his Lord save those who are astray ?

> <span id="v57">57</span> He said: And afterward what is your business, O you messengers (of Allah) ?

> <span id="v58">58</span> They said: We have been sent to a guilty folk,

> <span id="v59">59</span> (All) save the family of Lot. Them we shall deliver every one,

> <span id="v60">60</span> Except his wife, of whom We had decreed that she should be of those who stay behind.

> <span id="v61">61</span> And when the messengers came to the family of Lot,

> <span id="v62">62</span> He said: See! you are folk unknown (to me).

> <span id="v63">63</span> They said: No, but we bring you that concerning which they keep disputing,

> <span id="v64">64</span> And bring you the Truth, and see! we are truth-tellers.

> <span id="v65">65</span> So travel with your household in a portion of the night, and follow you their backs. Let none of you turn round, but go whither you are commanded.

> <span id="v66">66</span> And We made plain the case to him, that the root of them (who did wrong) was to be cut at early morn.

> <span id="v67">67</span> And the people of the city came, rejoicing at the news (of new arrivals).

> <span id="v68">68</span> He said: See! they are my guests. Affront me not!

> <span id="v69">69</span> And keep your duty to Allah, and shame me not!

> <span id="v70">70</span> They said; Have we not forbidden you from (entertaining) anyone ?

> <span id="v71">71</span> He said: Here are my daughters, if you must be doing (so).

> <span id="v72">72</span> By your life (O Muhammad) they moved blindly in the frenzy of approaching death.

> <span id="v73">73</span> Then the (Awful) Cry overtook them at the sunrise.

> <span id="v74">74</span> And We utterly confounded them, and We rained upon them stones of heated clay.

> <span id="v75">75</span> See! therein verily are portents for those who read the signs.

> <span id="v76">76</span> And see! it is upon a road still uneffaced.

> <span id="v77">77</span> See! therein is indeed a portent for believers.

> <span id="v78">78</span> And the dwellers in the wood indeed were evil-doers.

> <span id="v79">79</span> So we took vengeance on them; and see! they both are on a high-road plain to see.

> <span id="v80">80</span> And the dwellers in Al-Hijr denied (Our) messengers.

> <span id="v81">81</span> And we gave them Our revelations, but they were averse to them.

> <span id="v82">82</span> And they used to hew out dwellings from the hills, (wherein they dwelt) secure.

> <span id="v83">83</span> But the (Awful) Cry overtook them at the morning hour,

> <span id="v84">84</span> And that which they were wont to count as gain availed them not.

> <span id="v85">85</span> We created not the heavens and the earth and all that is between them save with truth, and see! the Hour is surely coming. So forgive, (O Muhammad), with a gracious forgiveness.

> <span id="v86">86</span> See! your Lord! He is the All-Wise Creator.

> <span id="v87">87</span> We have given you seven of the oft-repeated (verses) and the great Qur'an.

> <span id="v88">88</span> Strain not thine eyes toward that which We cause some wedded pairs among them to enjoin, and be not grieved on their account, and lower your wing (in tenderness) for the believers.

> <span id="v89">89</span> And say: See! I, even I, am a plain warner,

> <span id="v90">90</span> Such as We send down for those who make division,

> <span id="v91">91</span> Those who break the Qur'an into parts.

> <span id="v92">92</span> Them, by your Lord, We shall question, every one,

> <span id="v93">93</span> Of what they used to do.

> <span id="v94">94</span> So proclaim that which you are commanded, and withdraw from the idolaters.

> <span id="v95">95</span> See! We defend you from the scoffers,

> <span id="v96">96</span> Who set some other god along with Allah. But they will come to know.

> <span id="v97">97</span> Well know We that your bosom is oppressed by what they say,

> <span id="v98">98</span> But hymn the praise of your Lord, and be of those who make prostration (to Him).

> <span id="v99">99</span> And serve your Lord till the Inevitable cometh to you.
