---
layout: surah
title: Surah 16
search: true
permalink: /quran/16/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> The commandment of Allah will come to pass, so seek not you to hasten it. Glorified and Exalted be He above all that they associate (with Him).

> <span id="v2">2</span> He sendeth down the angels with the Spirit of His command to whom He will of His bondmen, (saying): Warn mankind that there is no God save Me, so keep your duty to Me.

> <span id="v3">3</span> He has created the heavens and the earth with truth. High be He Exalted above all that they associate (with Him).

> <span id="v4">4</span> He has created man from a drop of fluid, yet behold! he is an open opponent.

> <span id="v5">5</span> And the cattle has He created, whence you have warm clothing and uses, and whereof you eat;

> <span id="v6">6</span> And wherein is beauty for you, when you bring them home, and when you take them out to pasture.

> <span id="v7">7</span> And they bear your loads for you to a land you could not reach save with great trouble to yourselves. See! your Lord is Full of Pity, Merciful.

> <span id="v8">8</span> And horses and mules and asses (hath He created) that you may ride them, and for ornament. And He created that which you know not.

> <span id="v9">9</span> And Allah's is the direction of the way, and some (roads) go not straight. And had He willed He would have led you all aright.

> <span id="v10">10</span> He it is Who sendeth down water from the sky, whence you have drink, and whence are trees on which you send your beasts to pasture.

> <span id="v11">11</span> Therewith He causeth crops to grow for you, and the olive and the date-palm and grapes and all kinds of fruit. See! herein is indeed a portent for people who reflect.

> <span id="v12">12</span> And He has constrained the night and the day and the sun and the moon to be of service to you, and the stars are made subservient by His command. See! herein indeed are portents for people who have sense.

> <span id="v13">13</span> And whatsoever He has created for you in the earth of many hues, see! therein is indeed a portent for people who take heed.

> <span id="v14">14</span> And He it is Who has constrained the sea to be of service that you eat fresh meat from thence, and bring forth from thence ornaments which you wear. And you seest the ships ploughing it that you (mankind) may seek of His bounty and that haply you may give thanks.

> <span id="v15">15</span> And He has cast into the earth firm hills that it quake not with you, and streams and roads that you may find a way.

> <span id="v16">16</span> And landmarks (too), and by the star they find a way.

> <span id="v17">17</span> Is He then Who created as him who created not ? Will you not then remember ?

> <span id="v18">18</span> And if you would count the favour of Allah you cannot reckon it. See! Allah is indeed Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v19">19</span> And Allah knows that which you keep hidden and that which you proclaim.

> <span id="v20">20</span> Those to whom they cry beside Allah created nothing, but are themselves created.

> <span id="v21">21</span> (They are) dead, not living. And they know not when they will be raised.

> <span id="v22">22</span> Your God is One God. But as for those who believe not in the Hereafter their hearts refuse to know, for they are proud.

> <span id="v23">23</span> Assuredly Allah knows that which they keep hidden and that which they proclaim. See! He loveth not the proud.

> <span id="v24">24</span> And when it is said to them: What has your Lord revealed ? they say: (Mere) fables of the men of old,

> <span id="v25">25</span> That they may bear their burdens undiminished on the Day of Resurrection, with somewhat of the burdens of those whom they mislead without knowledge. Ah! evil is that which they bear!

> <span id="v26">26</span> Those before them plotted, so Allah struck at the foundations of their building, and then the roof fell down upon them from above them, and the doom came on them whence they knew not;

> <span id="v27">27</span> Then on the Day of Resurrection He will disgrace them and will say: Where are My partners, for whose sake you opposed (My guidance) ? Those who have been given knowledge will say: Disgrace this day and evil are upon the disbelievers,

> <span id="v28">28</span> Whom the angels cause to die while they are wronging themselves. Then will they make full submission (saying): We used not to do any wrong. No! Surely Allah is Knower of what you used to do.

> <span id="v29">29</span> So enter the gates of hell, to dwell therein for ever. Woeful indeed will be the lodging of the arrogant.

> <span id="v30">30</span> And it is said to those who ward off (evil): What has your Lord revealed ? They say: Good. For those who do good in this world there is a good (reward) and the home of the Hereafter will be better. Pleasant indeed will be the home of those who ward off (evil) -

> <span id="v31">31</span> Gardens of Eden which they enter, underneath which rivers flow, wherein they have what they will. Thus Allah repayeth those who ward off (evil),

> <span id="v32">32</span> Those whom the angels cause to die (when they are) good. They say: Peace be to you! Enter the Garden because of what you used to do.

> <span id="v33">33</span> Await they aught say that the angels should come to them or your Lord's command should come to pass ? Even so did those before them. Allah wronged them not, but they did wrong themselves,

> <span id="v34">34</span> So that the evils of what they did smote them, and that which they used to mock surrounded them.

> <span id="v35">35</span> And the idolaters say: Had Allah willed, we had not worshipped aught beside Him, we and our fathers, nor had we forbidden aught without (command from) Him. Even so did those before them. Are the messengers charged with aught save plain conveyance (of the message) ?

> <span id="v36">36</span> And verily We have raised in every nation a messenger, (proclaiming): Serve Allah and shun false gods. Then some of them (there were) whom Allah guided, and some of them (there were) upon whom error had just hold. Do but travel in the land and see the nature of the consequence for the deniers!

> <span id="v37">37</span> Even if you (O Muhammad) desirest their right guidance, still Allah assuredly will not guide him who misleadeth. Such have no helpers.

> <span id="v38">38</span> And they swear by Allah their most binding oaths (that) Allah will not raise up him who dieth. No, but it is a promise (binding) upon Him in truth, but most of mankind know not,

> <span id="v39">39</span> That He may explain to them that wherein they differ, and that those who disbelieved may know that they were liars.

> <span id="v40">40</span> And Our word to a thing, when We intend it, is only that We say to it: Be! and it is.

> <span id="v41">41</span> And those who became fugitives for the cause of Allah after they had been oppressed, We verily shall give them goodly lodging in the world, and surely the reward of the Hereafter is greater, if they but knew;

> <span id="v42">42</span> Such as are steadfast and put their trust in Allah.

> <span id="v43">43</span> And We sent not (as Our messengers) before you other than men whom We inspired - Ask the followers of the Remembrance if you know not! -

> <span id="v44">44</span> With clear proofs and writings; and We have revealed to you the Remembrance that you mayst explain to mankind that which has been revealed for them, and that haply they may reflect.

> <span id="v45">45</span> Are they who plan ill-deeds then secure that Allah will not cause the earth to swallow them, or that the doom will not come on them whence they know not ?

> <span id="v46">46</span> Or that He will not seize them in their going to and fro so that there be no escape for them ?

> <span id="v47">47</span> Or that He will not seize them with a gradual wasting ? See! your Lord is indeed Full of Pity, Merciful.

> <span id="v48">48</span> Have they not observed all things that Allah has created, how their shadows incline to the right and to the left, making prostration to Allah, and they are lowly ?

> <span id="v49">49</span> And to Allah maketh prostration whatsoever is in the heavens and whatsoever is in the earth of living creatures, and the angels (also) and they are not proud.

> <span id="v50">50</span> They fear their Lord above them, and do what they are bidden.

> <span id="v51">51</span> Allah has said: Choose not two gods. There is only One God. So of Me, Me only, be in awe.

> <span id="v52">52</span> Unto Him belongeth whatsoever is in the heavens and the earth, and religion is His for ever. Will you then fear any other than Allah ?

> <span id="v53">53</span> And whatever of comfort you enjoy, it is from Allah. Then, when misfortune reacheth you, to Him you cry for help.

> <span id="v54">54</span> And afterward, when He has rid you of the misfortune, behold! a set of you attribute partners to their Lord,

> <span id="v55">55</span> So as to deny that which We have given them. Then enjoy life (while you may), for you will come to know.

> <span id="v56">56</span> And they assign a portion of that which We have given them to what they know not. By Allah! but you will indeed be asked concerning (all) that you used to invent.

> <span id="v57">57</span> And they assign to Allah daughters - Be He Glorified! - and to themselves what they desire;

> <span id="v58">58</span> When if one of them receiveth tidings of the birth of a female, his face remaineth darkened, and he is wroth inwardly.

> <span id="v59">59</span> He hideth himself from the folk because of the evil of that whereof he has had tidings, (asking himself): Shall he keep it in contempt, or bury it beneath the dust. Verily evil is their judgment.

> <span id="v60">60</span> For those who believe not in the Hereafter is an evil similitude, and Allah's is the Sublime Similitude. He is the Mighty, the Wise.

> <span id="v61">61</span> If Allah were to take mankind to task for their wrong-doing, he would not leave hereon a living creature, but He reprieveth them to an appointed term, and when their term cometh they cannot put (it) off an hour nor (yet) advance (it).

> <span id="v62">62</span> And they assign to Allah that which they (themselves) dislike, and their tongues expound the lie that the better portion will be theirs. Assuredly theirs will be the Fire, and they will be abandoned.

> <span id="v63">63</span> By Allah, We verily sent messengers to the nations before you, but the devil made their deeds fairseeming to them. So he is their patron this day, and theirs will be a painful doom.

> <span id="v64">64</span> And We have revealed the Scripture to you only that you mayst explain to them that wherein they differ, and (as) a guidance and a mercy for a people who believe.

> <span id="v65">65</span> Allah sendeth down water from the sky and therewith reviveth the earth after her death. See! herein is indeed a portent for a folk who hear.

> <span id="v66">66</span> And see! in the cattle there is a lesson for you. We give you to drink of that which is in their bellies, from betwixt the refuse and the blood, pure milk palatable to the drinkers.

> <span id="v67">67</span> And of the fruits of the date-palm, and grapes, whence you derive strong drink and (also) good nourishment. See! therein is indeed a portent for people who have sense.

> <span id="v68">68</span> And your Lord inspired the bee, saying: Choose you habitations in the hills and in the trees and in that which they thatch;

> <span id="v69">69</span> Then eat of all fruits, and follow the ways of your Lord, made smooth (for you). There cometh forth from their bellies a drink many of hues, wherein is healing for mankind. See! herein is indeed a portent for people who reflect.

> <span id="v70">70</span> And Allah created you, then causeth you to die, and among you is he who is brought back to the most abject stage of life, so that he knows nothing after (having had) knowledge. See! Allah is Knower, Powerful.

> <span id="v71">71</span> And Allah has favoured some of you above others in provision. Now those who are more favoured will by no means hand over their provision to those (slaves) whom their right hands possess, so that they may be equal with them in respect thereof. Is it then the grace of Allah that they deny ?

> <span id="v72">72</span> And Allah has given you wives of your own kind, and has given you, from your wives, sons and grandsons, and has made provision of good things for you. Is it then in vanity that they believe and in the grace of Allah that they disbelieve ?

> <span id="v73">73</span> And they worship beside Allah that which owneth no provision whatsoever for them from the heavens or the earth, nor have they (whom they worship) any power.

> <span id="v74">74</span> So coin not similitudes for Allah. See! Allah knoweth; you know not.

> <span id="v75">75</span> Allah coineth a similitude: (on the one hand) a (mere) chattel slave, who has control of nothing, and (on the other hand) one on whom we have bestowed a fair provision from Us, and he spendeth thereof secretly and openly. Are they equal ? Praise be to Allah! But most of them know not.

> <span id="v76">76</span> And Allah coineth a similitude: Two men, one of them dumb, having control of nothing, and he is a burden on his owner; whithersoever he directeth him to go, he bringeth no good. Is he equal with one who urges justice and followeth a straight path (of conduct) ?

> <span id="v77">77</span> And to Allah belongeth the Unseen of the heavens and the earth, and the matter of the Hour (of Doom) is but as a twinkling of the eye, or it is nearer still. See! Allah is Able to do all things.

> <span id="v78">78</span> And Allah brought you forth from the wombs of your mothers knowing nothing, and gave you hearing and sight and hearts that haply you might give thanks.

> <span id="v79">79</span> Have they not seen the birds obedient in mid-air ? None holdeth them save Allah. See! herein, verily, are portents for a people who believe.

> <span id="v80">80</span> And Allah has given you in your houses an abode, and has given you (also), of the hides of cattle, houses which you find light (to carry) on the day of migration and on the day of pitching camp; and of their wool and their fur and their hair, caparison and comfort for a while.

> <span id="v81">81</span> And Allah has given you, of that which He has created, shelter from the sun; and has given you places of refuge in the mountains, and has given you coats to ward off the heat from you, and coats (of armour) to save you from your own foolhardiness. Thus does He perfect His favour to you, in order that you may surrender (unto Him).

> <span id="v82">82</span> Then, if they turn away, your duty (O Muhammad) is but plain conveyance (of the message).

> <span id="v83">83</span> They know the favour of Allah and then deny it. Most of them are ingrates.

> <span id="v84">84</span> And (bethink you of) the day when we raise up of every nation a witness, then there is no leave for disbelievers, nor are they allowed to make amends.

> <span id="v85">85</span> And when those who did wrong behold the doom, it will not be made light for them, nor will they be reprieved.

> <span id="v86">86</span> And when those who ascribed partners to Allah behold those partners of theirs, they will say: Our Lord! these are our partners to whom we used to cry instead of Thee. But they will fling to them the saying: See! you verily are liars!

> <span id="v87">87</span> And they proffer to Allah submission on that day, and all that they used to invent has failed them.

> <span id="v88">88</span> For those who disbelieve and debar (men) from the way of Allah, We add doom to doom because they wrought corruption,

> <span id="v89">89</span> And (bethink you of) the day when We raise in every nation a witness against them of their own folk, and We bring you (Muhammad) as a witness against these. And We reveal the Scripture to you as an exposition of all things, and a guidance and a mercy and good tidings for those who have surrendered (to Allah).

> <span id="v90">90</span> See! Allah urges justice and kindness, and giving to kinsfolk, and forbiddeth lewdness and abomination and wickedness. He exhorteth you in order that you may take heed.

> <span id="v91">91</span> Fulfil the covenant of Allah when you have covenanted, and break not your oaths after the asseveration of them, and after you have made Allah surety over you. See! Allah knows what you do.

> <span id="v92">92</span> And be not like to her who unravelleth the thread, after she has made it strong, to thin filaments, making your oaths a deceit between you because of a nation being more numerous than (another) nation. Allah only trieth you thereby, and He verily will explain to you on the Day of Resurrection that wherein you differed.

> <span id="v93">93</span> Had Allah willed He could have made you (all) one nation, but He sendeth whom He will astray and guideth whom He will, and you will indeed be asked of what you used to do.

> <span id="v94">94</span> Make not your oaths a deceit between you, lest a foot should slip after being firmly planted and you should taste evil forasmuch as you debarred (men) from the way of Allah, and yours should be an awful doom.

> <span id="v95">95</span> And purchase not a small gain at the price of Allah's covenant. See! that which Allah has is better for you, if you did but know.

> <span id="v96">96</span> That which you have wasteth away, and that which Allah has remaineth. And verily We shall pay those who are steadfast a recompense in proportion to the best of what they used to do.

> <span id="v97">97</span> Whosoever does right, whether male or female, and is a believer, him verily we shall quicken with good life, and We shall pay them a recompense in proportion to the best of what they used to do.

> <span id="v98">98</span> And when you recitest the Qur'an, seek refuge in Allah from Satan the outcast.

> <span id="v99">99</span> See! he has no power over those who believe and put trust in their Lord.

> <span id="v100">100</span> His power is only over those who make a friend of him, and those who ascribe partners to Him (Allah).

> <span id="v101">101</span> And when We put a revelation in place of (another) revelation, - and Allah knows best what He revealeth - they say: See! you are but inventing. Most of them know not.

> <span id="v102">102</span> Say: The holy Spirit has delivered it from your Lord with truth, that it may confirm (the faith of) those who believe, and as guidance and good tidings for those who have surrendered (to Allah).

> <span id="v103">103</span> And We know well that they say: Only a man teaches him. The speech of him at whom they falsely hint is outlandish, and this is clear Arabic speech.

> <span id="v104">104</span> See! those who disbelieve the revelations of Allah, Allah guideth them not and theirs will be a painful doom.

> <span id="v105">105</span> Only they invent falsehood who believe not Allah's revelations, and (only) they are the liars.

> <span id="v106">106</span> Whoso disbelieveth in Allah after his belief - save him who is forced thereto and whose heart is still content with the Faith - but whoso findeth ease in disbelief: On them is wrath from Allah. Theirs will be an awful doom.

> <span id="v107">107</span> That is because they have chosen the life of the world rather than the Hereafter, and because Allah guideth not the disbelieving folk.

> <span id="v108">108</span> Such are they whose hearts and ears and eyes Allah has sealed. And such are the heedless.

> <span id="v109">109</span> Assuredly in the Hereafter they are the losers.

> <span id="v110">110</span> Then see! your Lord - for those who became fugitives after they had been persecuted, and then fought and were steadfast - see! your Lord afterward is (for them) indeed Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v111">111</span> On the Day when every soul will come pleading for itself, and every soul will be repaid what it did, and they will not be wronged.

> <span id="v112">112</span> Allah coineth a similitude: a township that dwelt secure and well content, its provision coming to it in abundance from every side, but it disbelieved in Allah's favours, so Allah made it experience the garb of dearth and fear because of what they used to do.

> <span id="v113">113</span> And verily there had come to them a messenger from among them, but they had denied him, and so the torment seized them while they were wrong-doers.

> <span id="v114">114</span> So eat of the lawful and good food which Allah has provided for you, and thank the bounty of your Lord if it is Him you serve.

> <span id="v115">115</span> He has forbidden for you only carrion and blood and swineflesh and that which has been immolated in the name of any other than Allah; but he who is driven thereto, neither craving nor transgressing, see! then Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v116">116</span> And speak not, concerning that which your own tongues qualify (as clean or unclean), the falsehood: "This is lawful, and this is forbidden," so that you invent a lie against Allah. See! those who invent a lie against Allah will not succeed.

> <span id="v117">117</span> A brief enjoyment (will be theirs); and theirs a painful doom.

> <span id="v118">118</span> And to those who are Jews We have forbidden that which We have already related to you. And We wronged them not, but they were wont to wrong themselves.

> <span id="v119">119</span> Then see! your Lord - for those who do evil in ignorance and afterward repent and amend - see! (for them) your Lord is afterward indeed Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v120">120</span> See! Abraham was a nation obedient to Allah, by nature upright, and he was not of the idolaters;

> <span id="v121">121</span> Thankful for His bounties; He chose him and He guided him to a straight path.

> <span id="v122">122</span> And We gave him good in the world, and in the Hereafter he is among the righteous.

> <span id="v123">123</span> And afterward We inspired you (Muhammad, saying): Follow the religion of Abraham, as one by nature upright. He was not of the idolaters.

> <span id="v124">124</span> The Sabbath was appointed only for those who differed concerning it, and see! your Lord will judge between them on the Day of Resurrection concerning that wherein they used to differ.

> <span id="v125">125</span> Call to the way of your Lord with wisdom and fair exhortation, and reason with them in the better way. See! your Lord is Best Aware of him who strayeth from His way, and He is Best Aware of those who go aright.

> <span id="v126">126</span> If you punish, then punish with the like of that wherewith you were afflicted. But if you endure patiently, verily it is better for the patient.

> <span id="v127">127</span> Endure you patiently (O Muhammad). Thine endurance is only by (the help of) Allah. Grieve not for them, and be not in distress because of that which they devise.

> <span id="v128">128</span> See! Allah is with those who keep their duty to Him and those who are doers of good.
