---
layout: surah
title: Surah 26
search: true
permalink: /quran/26/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> Ta. Sin. Mim.

> <span id="v2">2</span> These are revelations of the Scripture that maketh plain.

> <span id="v3">3</span> It may be that you tormentest thyself (O Muhammad) because they believe not.

> <span id="v4">4</span> If We will, We can send down on them from the sky a portent so that their necks would remain bowed before it.

> <span id="v5">5</span> Never cometh there unto them a fresh reminder from the Beneficent One, but they turn away from it.

> <span id="v6">6</span> Now they have denied (the Truth); but there will come unto them tidings of that whereat they used to scoff.

> <span id="v7">7</span> Have they not seen the earth, how much of every fruitful kind We make to grow therein ?

> <span id="v8">8</span> See! herein is indeed a portent; yet most of them are not believers.

> <span id="v9">9</span> And lo! your Lord! He is indeed the Mighty, the Merciful.

> <span id="v10">10</span> And when your Lord called Moses, saying: Go unto the wrongdoing folk,

> <span id="v11">11</span> The folk of Pharaoh. Will they not ward off (evil) ?

> <span id="v12">12</span> He said: My Lord! See! I fear that they will deny me,

> <span id="v13">13</span> And I shall be embarrassed, and my tongue will not speak plainly, therefor send for Aaron (to help me).

> <span id="v14">14</span> And they have a crime against me, so I fear that they will kill me.

> <span id="v15">15</span> He said: No, verily. So go you twain with Our tokens. See! We shall be with you, Hearing.

> <span id="v16">16</span> And come together unto Pharaoh and say: See! we bear a message of the Lord of the Worlds,

> <span id="v17">17</span> (Saying): Let the Children of Israel go with us.

> <span id="v18">18</span> (Pharaoh) said (unto Moses): Did we not rear you among us as a child ? And you didst dwell many years of your life among us,

> <span id="v19">19</span> And you didst that your deed which you didst, and you wast one of the ingrates.

> <span id="v20">20</span> He said: I did it then, when I was of those who are astray.

> <span id="v21">21</span> Then I fled from you when I feared you, and my Lord vouchsafed me a command and appointed me (of the number) of those sent (by Him).

> <span id="v22">22</span> And this is the past favour wherewith you reproachest me: that you hast enslaved the Children of Israel.

> <span id="v23">23</span> Pharaoh said: And what is the Lord of the Worlds ?

> <span id="v24">24</span> (Moses) said: Lord of the heavens and the earth and all that is between them, if you had but sure belief.

> <span id="v25">25</span> (Pharaoh) said unto those around him: Hear you not ?

> <span id="v26">26</span> He said: Your Lord and the Lord of your fathers.

> <span id="v27">27</span> (Pharaoh) said: See! your messenger who has been sent unto you is indeed a madman!

> <span id="v28">28</span> He said: Lord of the East and the West and all that is between them, if you did but understand.

> <span id="v29">29</span> (Pharaoh) said: If you choosest a god other than me, I assuredly shall place you among the prisoners.

> <span id="v30">30</span> He said: Even though I show you something plain ?

> <span id="v31">31</span> (Pharaoh) said: Produce it then, if you art of the truthful!

> <span id="v32">32</span> Then he flung down his staff and it became a serpent manifest,

> <span id="v33">33</span> And he drew forth his hand and lo! it was white to the beholders.

> <span id="v34">34</span> (Pharaoh) said unto the chiefs about him: See! this is verily a knowing wizard,

> <span id="v35">35</span> Who would drive you out of your land by his magic. Now what counsel you ?

> <span id="v36">36</span> They said: Put him off, (him) and his brother, and send into the cities summoners

> <span id="v37">37</span> Who shall bring unto you every knowing wizard.

> <span id="v38">38</span> So the wizards were gathered together at a set time on a day appointed.

> <span id="v39">39</span> And it was said unto the people: Are you (also) gathering ?

> <span id="v40">40</span> (They said): Aye, so that we may follow the wizards if they are the winners.

> <span id="v41">41</span> And when the wizards came they said unto Pharaoh: Will there surely be a reward for us if we are the winners ?

> <span id="v42">42</span> He said: Aye, and you will then surely be of those brought near (to me).

> <span id="v43">43</span> Moses said unto them: Throw what you are going to throw!

> <span id="v44">44</span> Then they threw down their cords and their staves and said: By Pharaoh's might, lo! we verily are the winners.

> <span id="v45">45</span> Then Moses threw his staff and lo! it swallowed that which they did falsely show.

> <span id="v46">46</span> And the wizards were flung prostrate,

> <span id="v47">47</span> Crying: We believe in the Lord of the Worlds,

> <span id="v48">48</span> The Lord of Moses and Aaron.

> <span id="v49">49</span> (Pharaoh) said: Ye put your faith in him before I give you leave. See! he doubtless is your chief who taught you magic! But verily you shall come to know. Verily I will cut off your hands and your feet alternately, and verily I will crucify you every one.

> <span id="v50">50</span> They said: It is no hurt, for lo! unto our Lord we shall return.

> <span id="v51">51</span> See! we ardently hope that our Lord will forgive us our sins because we are the first of the believers.

> <span id="v52">52</span> And We inspired Moses, saying: Take away My slaves by night, for you will be pursued.

> <span id="v53">53</span> Then Pharaoh sent into the cities summoners,

> <span id="v54">54</span> (Who said): See! these indeed are but a little troop,

> <span id="v55">55</span> And lo! they are offenders against us.

> <span id="v56">56</span> And lo! we are a ready host.

> <span id="v57">57</span> Thus did We take them away from gardens and watersprings,

> <span id="v58">58</span> And treasures and a fair estate.

> <span id="v59">59</span> Thus (were those things taken from them) and We caused the Children of Israel to inherit them.

> <span id="v60">60</span> And they overtook them at sunrise.

> <span id="v61">61</span> And when the two hosts saw each other, those with Moses said: See! we are indeed caught.

> <span id="v62">62</span> He said: No, verily! for lo! my Lord is with me. He will guide me.

> <span id="v63">63</span> Then We inspired Moses, saying: Smite the sea with your staff. And it parted, and each part was as a mountain vast.

> <span id="v64">64</span> Then brought We near the others to that place.

> <span id="v65">65</span> And We saved Moses and those with him, every one;

> <span id="v66">66</span> And We drowned the others.

> <span id="v67">67</span> See! herein is indeed a portent, yet most of them are not believers.

> <span id="v68">68</span> And lo, your Lord! He is indeed the Mighty, the Merciful.

> <span id="v69">69</span> Recite unto them the story of Abraham:

> <span id="v70">70</span> When he said unto his father and his folk: What worship you ?

> <span id="v71">71</span> They said: We worship idols, and are ever devoted unto them.

> <span id="v72">72</span> He said: Do they hear you when you cry ?

> <span id="v73">73</span> Or do they benefit or harm you ?

> <span id="v74">74</span> They said: No, but we found our fathers acting on this wise.

> <span id="v75">75</span> He said: See now that which you worship,

> <span id="v76">76</span> Ye and your forefathers!

> <span id="v77">77</span> See! they are (all) an enemy unto me, save the Lord of the Worlds,

> <span id="v78">78</span> Who created me, and He doth guide me,

> <span id="v79">79</span> And Who feedeth me and watereth me.

> <span id="v80">80</span> And when I sicken, then He healeth me,

> <span id="v81">81</span> And Who causeth me to die, then giveth me life (again),

> <span id="v82">82</span> And Who, I ardently hope, will forgive me my sin on the Day of Judgment.

> <span id="v83">83</span> My Lord! Vouchsafe me wisdom and unite me to the righteous.

> <span id="v84">84</span> And give unto me a good report in later generations.

> <span id="v85">85</span> And place me among the inheritors of the Garden of Delight,

> <span id="v86">86</span> And forgive my father. See! he is of those who err.

> <span id="v87">87</span> And abase me not on the day when they are raised,

> <span id="v88">88</span> The day when wealth and sons avail not (any man)

> <span id="v89">89</span> Save him who bringeth unto Allah a whole heart.

> <span id="v90">90</span> And the Garden will be brought nigh for those who ward off (evil).

> <span id="v91">91</span> And hell will appear plainly to the erring.

> <span id="v92">92</span> And it will be said unto them: Where is (all) that you used to worship

> <span id="v93">93</span> Instead of Allah ? Can they help you or help themselves ?

> <span id="v94">94</span> Then will they be hurled therein, they and the seducers

> <span id="v95">95</span> And the hosts of Iblis, together.

> <span id="v96">96</span> And they will say, when they are quarrelling therein:

> <span id="v97">97</span> By Allah, of a truth we were in error manifest

> <span id="v98">98</span> When we made you equal with the Lord of the Worlds.

> <span id="v99">99</span> It was but the guilty who misled us.

> <span id="v100">100</span> Now we have no intercessors

> <span id="v101">101</span> Nor any loving friend.

> <span id="v102">102</span> Oh, that we had another turn (on earth), that we might be of the believers!

> <span id="v103">103</span> See! herein is indeed a portent, yet most of them are not believers!

> <span id="v104">104</span> And lo, your Lord! He is indeed the Mighty, the Merciful.

> <span id="v105">105</span> Noah's folk denied the messengers (of Allah),

> <span id="v106">106</span> When their brother Noah said unto them: Will you not ward off (evil) ?

> <span id="v107">107</span> See! I am a faithful messenger unto you,

> <span id="v108">108</span> So keep your duty to Allah, and obey me.

> <span id="v109">109</span> And I ask of you no wage therefor; my wage is the concern only of the Lord of the Worlds.

> <span id="v110">110</span> So keep your duty to Allah, and obey me.

> <span id="v111">111</span> They said: Shall we put faith in thee, when the lowest (of the people) follow you ?

> <span id="v112">112</span> He said: And what knowledge have I of what they may have been doing (in the past) ?

> <span id="v113">113</span> See! their reckoning is my Lord's concern, if you but knew;

> <span id="v114">114</span> And I am not (here) to repulse believers.

> <span id="v115">115</span> I am only a plain warner.

> <span id="v116">116</span> They said: If you cease not, O Noah, you will surely be among those stoned (to death).

> <span id="v117">117</span> He said: My Lord! See! my own folk deny me.

> <span id="v118">118</span> Therefor judge You between us, a (conclusive) judgment, and save me and those believers who are with me.

> <span id="v119">119</span> And We saved him and those with him in the laden ship.

> <span id="v120">120</span> Then afterward We drowned the others.

> <span id="v121">121</span> See! herein is indeed a portent, yet most of them are not believers.

> <span id="v122">122</span> And lo, your Lord, He is indeed the Mighty, the Merciful.

> <span id="v123">123</span> (The tribe of) A'ad denied the messengers (of Allah).

> <span id="v124">124</span> When their brother Hud said unto them: Will you not ward off (evil) ?

> <span id="v125">125</span> See! I am a faithful messenger unto you,

> <span id="v126">126</span> So keep your duty to Allah and obey me.

> <span id="v127">127</span> And I ask of you no wage therefor; my wage is the concern only of the Lord of the Worlds.

> <span id="v128">128</span> Build you on every high place a monument for vain delight ?

> <span id="v129">129</span> And seek you out strongholds, that haply you may last for ever ?

> <span id="v130">130</span> And if you seize by force, seize you as tyrants ?

> <span id="v131">131</span> Rather keep your duty to Allah, and obey me.

> <span id="v132">132</span> Keep your duty toward Him Who has aided you with (the good things) that you know,

> <span id="v133">133</span> Hath aided you with cattle and sons.

> <span id="v134">134</span> And gardens and watersprings.

> <span id="v135">135</span> See! I fear for you the retribution of an awful day.

> <span id="v136">136</span> They said: It is all one to us whether you preachest or art not of those who preach;

> <span id="v137">137</span> This is but a fable of the men of old,

> <span id="v138">138</span> And we shall not be doomed.

> <span id="v139">139</span> And they denied him; therefor We destroyed them. See! herein is indeed a portent, yet most of them are not believers.

> <span id="v140">140</span> And lo! your Lord, He is indeed the Mighty, the Merciful.

> <span id="v141">141</span> (The tribe of) Thamud denied the messengers (of Allah)

> <span id="v142">142</span> When their brother Salih said unto them: Will you not ward off (evil) ?

> <span id="v143">143</span> See! I am a faithful messenger unto you,

> <span id="v144">144</span> So keep your duty to Allah and obey me.

> <span id="v145">145</span> And I ask of you no wage therefor; my wage is the concern only of the Lord of the Worlds.

> <span id="v146">146</span> Will you be left secure in that which is here before us,

> <span id="v147">147</span> In gardens and watersprings.

> <span id="v148">148</span> And tilled fields and heavy-sheathed palm-trees,

> <span id="v149">149</span> Though you hew out dwellings in the mountain, being skilful ?

> <span id="v150">150</span> Therefor keep your duty to Allah and obey me,

> <span id="v151">151</span> And obey not the command of the prodigal,

> <span id="v152">152</span> Who spread corruption in the earth, and reform not.

> <span id="v153">153</span> They said: You art but one of the bewitched;

> <span id="v154">154</span> You art but a mortal like us. So bring some token if you art of the truthful.

> <span id="v155">155</span> He said: (Behold) this she-camel. She has the right to drink (at the well), and you have the right to drink, (each) on an appointed day.

> <span id="v156">156</span> And touch her not with ill lest there come on you the retribution of an awful day.

> <span id="v157">157</span> But they hamstrung her, and then were penitent.

> <span id="v158">158</span> So the retribution came on them. See! herein is indeed a portent, yet most of them are not believers.

> <span id="v159">159</span> And lo! your Lord! He is indeed the Mighty, the Merciful.

> <span id="v160">160</span> The folk of Lot denied the messengers (of Allah),

> <span id="v161">161</span> When their brother Lot said unto them: Will you not ward off (evil) ?

> <span id="v162">162</span> See! I am a faithful messenger unto you,

> <span id="v163">163</span> So keep your duty to Allah and obey me.

> <span id="v164">164</span> And I ask of you no wage therefor; my wage is the concern only of the Lord of the Worlds.

> <span id="v165">165</span> What! Of all creatures do you come unto the males,

> <span id="v166">166</span> And leave the wives your Lord created for you ? No, but you are froward folk.

> <span id="v167">167</span> They said: If you cease not, O Lot, you will soon be of the outcast.

> <span id="v168">168</span> He said: I am in truth of those who hate your conduct.

> <span id="v169">169</span> My Lord! Save me and my household from what they do.

> <span id="v170">170</span> So We saved him and his household, every one,

> <span id="v171">171</span> Save an old woman among those who stayed behind.

> <span id="v172">172</span> Then afterward We destroyed the others.

> <span id="v173">173</span> And We rained on them a rain. And dreadful is the rain of those who have been warned.

> <span id="v174">174</span> See! herein is indeed a portent, yet most of them are not believers.

> <span id="v175">175</span> And lo! your Lord, He is indeed the Mighty, the Merciful.

> <span id="v176">176</span> The dwellers in the wood (of Midian) denied the messengers (of Allah),

> <span id="v177">177</span> When Shu'eyb said unto them: Will you not ward off (evil) ?

> <span id="v178">178</span> See! I am a faithful messenger unto you,

> <span id="v179">179</span> So keep your duty to Allah and obey me.

> <span id="v180">180</span> And I ask of you no wage for it; my wage is the concern only of the Lord of the Worlds.

> <span id="v181">181</span> Give full measure, and be not of those who give less (than the due).

> <span id="v182">182</span> And weigh with the true balance.

> <span id="v183">183</span> Wrong not mankind in their goods, and do not evil, making mischief, in the earth.

> <span id="v184">184</span> And keep your duty unto Him Who created you and the generations of the men of old.

> <span id="v185">185</span> They said: You art but one of the bewitched;

> <span id="v186">186</span> You art but a mortal like us, and lo! we deem you of the liars.

> <span id="v187">187</span> Then make fragments of the heaven fall upon us, if you art of the truthful.

> <span id="v188">188</span> He said: My Lord is Best Aware of what you do.

> <span id="v189">189</span> But they denied him, so there came on them the retribution of the day of gloom. See! it was the retribution of an awful day.

> <span id="v190">190</span> See! herein is indeed a portent; yet most of them are not believers.

> <span id="v191">191</span> And lo! your Lord! He is indeed the Mighty, the Merciful.

> <span id="v192">192</span> And lo! it is a revelation of the Lord of the Worlds,

> <span id="v193">193</span> Which the True Spirit has brought down

> <span id="v194">194</span> Upon your heart, that you mayst be (one) of the warners,

> <span id="v195">195</span> In plain Arabic speech.

> <span id="v196">196</span> And lo! it is in the Scriptures of the men of old.

> <span id="v197">197</span> Is it not a token for them that the doctors of the Children of Israel know it ?

> <span id="v198">198</span> And if We had revealed it unto one of any other nation than the Arabs,

> <span id="v199">199</span> And he had read it unto them, they would not have believed in it.

> <span id="v200">200</span> Thus do We make it traverse the hearts of the guilty.

> <span id="v201">201</span> They will not believe in it till they behold the painful doom,

> <span id="v202">202</span> So that it will come upon them suddenly, when they perceive not.

> <span id="v203">203</span> Then they will say: Are we to be reprieved ?

> <span id="v204">204</span> Would they (now) hasten on Our doom ?

> <span id="v205">205</span> Hast you then seen, if We content them for (long) years,

> <span id="v206">206</span> And then cometh that which they were promised,

> <span id="v207">207</span> (How) that wherewith they were contented naught availeth them ?

> <span id="v208">208</span> And We destroyed no township but it had its warners

> <span id="v209">209</span> For reminder, for We never were oppressors.

> <span id="v210">210</span> The devils did not bring it down.

> <span id="v211">211</span> It is not meet for them, nor is it in their power,

> <span id="v212">212</span> See! verily they are banished from the hearing.

> <span id="v213">213</span> Therefor invoke not with Allah another god, lest you be one of the doomed.

> <span id="v214">214</span> And warn your tribe of near kindred,

> <span id="v215">215</span> And lower your wing (in kindness) unto those believers who follow thee.

> <span id="v216">216</span> And if they (thy kinsfolk) disobey thee, say: See! I am innocent of what they do.

> <span id="v217">217</span> And put your trust in the Mighty, the Merciful.

> <span id="v218">218</span> Who seeth you when you standest up (to pray)

> <span id="v219">219</span> And (seeth) thine abasement among those who fall prostrate (in worship).

> <span id="v220">220</span> See! He, only He, is the Hearer, the Knower.

> <span id="v221">221</span> Shall I inform you upon whom the devils descend ?

> <span id="v222">222</span> They descend on every sinful, false one.

> <span id="v223">223</span> They listen eagerly, but most of them are liars.

> <span id="v224">224</span> As for poets, the erring follow them.

> <span id="v225">225</span> Hast you not seen how they stray in every valley,

> <span id="v226">226</span> And how they say that which they do not ?

> <span id="v227">227</span> Save those who believe and do good works, and remember Allah much, and vindicate themselves after they have been wronged. Those who do wrong will come to know by what a (great) reverse they will be overturned!
