---
layout: surah
title: Surah 31
search: true
permalink: /quran/31/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> Alif. Lam. Mim.

> <span id="v2">2</span> These are revelations of the wise Scripture,

> <span id="v3">3</span> A guidance and a mercy for the good,

> <span id="v4">4</span> Those who establish worship and pay the poor-due and have sure faith in the Hereafter.

> <span id="v5">5</span> Such have guidance from their Lord. Such are the successful.

> <span id="v6">6</span> And of mankind is he who payeth for mere pastime of discourse, that he may mislead from Allah's way without knowledge, and maketh it the butt of mockery. For such there is a shameful doom.

> <span id="v7">7</span> And when Our revelations are recited to him he turns away in pride as if he heard them not, as if there were a deafness in his ears. So give him tidings of a painful doom.

> <span id="v8">8</span> See! those who believe and do good works, for them are the gardens of delight,

> <span id="v9">9</span> Wherein they will abide. It is a promise of Allah in truth. He is the Mighty, the Wise.

> <span id="v10">10</span> He has created the heavens without supports that you can see, and has cast into the earth firm hills, so that it quake not with you; and He has dispersed therein all kinds of beasts. And We send down water from the sky and We cause (plants) of every goodly kind to grow therein.

> <span id="v11">11</span> This is the Creation of Allah. Now show me that which those (ye worship) beside Him have created. No, but the wrong-doers are in error manifest!

> <span id="v12">12</span> And verily We gave Luqman wisdom, saying: Give thanks to Allah; and whosoever gives thanks, he gives thanks for (the good of) his soul. And whosoever refuseth - See! Allah is Absolute, Owner of Praise.

> <span id="v13">13</span> And (remember) when Luqman said to his son, when he was exhorting him: O my dear son! Ascribe no partners to Allah. See! to ascribe partners (unto Him) is a tremendous wrong -

> <span id="v14">14</span> And We have enjoined upon man concerning his partners - His mother beareth him in weakness upon weakness, and his weaning is in two years - Give thanks to Me and to your parents. Unto Me is the journeying.

> <span id="v15">15</span> But if they strive with you to make you ascribe to Me as partner that of which you hast no knowledge, then obey them not. Consort with them in the world kindly, and follow the path of him who repenteth to Me. Then to Me will be your return, and I shall tell you what you used to do -

> <span id="v16">16</span> O my dear son! See! though it be but the weight of a grain of mustard-seed, and though it be in a rock, or in the heavens, or in the earth, Allah will bring it forth. See! Allah is Subtile, Aware.

> <span id="v17">17</span> O my dear son! Establish worship and enjoin kindness and forbid iniquity, and persevere whatever may befall you. See! that is of the steadfast heart of things.

> <span id="v18">18</span> Turn not your cheek in scorn toward folk, nor walk with pertness in the land. See! Allah loveth not each braggart boaster.

> <span id="v19">19</span> Be modest in your bearing and subdue your voice. See! the harshest of all voices is the voice of the ass.

> <span id="v20">20</span> See you not how Allah has made serviceable to you whatsoever is in the skies and whatsoever is in the earth and has loaded you with His favours both without and within ? Yet of mankind is he who disputeth concerning Allah, without knowledge or guidance or a scripture giving light.

> <span id="v21">21</span> And if it be said to them: Follow that which Allah has revealed, they say: No, but we follow that wherein we found our fathers. What! Even though the devil were inviting them to the doom of flame ?

> <span id="v22">22</span> Whosoever surrendereth his purpose to Allah while doing good, he verily has grasped the firm hand-hold. Unto Allah belongeth the sequel of all things.

> <span id="v23">23</span> And whosoever disbelieves, let not his disbelief afflict you (O Muhammad). Unto Us is their return, and We shall tell them what they did. See! Allah is Aware of what is in the breasts (of men).

> <span id="v24">24</span> We give them comfort for a little, and then We drive them to a heavy doom.

> <span id="v25">25</span> If you shouldst ask them: Who created the heavens and the earth ? they would answer: Allah. Say: Praise be to Allah! But most of them know not.

> <span id="v26">26</span> Unto Allah belongeth whatsoever is in the heavens and the earth. See! Allah, He is the Absolute, the Owner of Praise.

> <span id="v27">27</span> And if all the trees in the earth were pens, and the sea, with seven more seas to help it, (were ink), the words of Allah could not be exhausted. See! Allah is Mighty, Wise.

> <span id="v28">28</span> Your creation and your raising (from the dead) are only as (the creation and the raising of) a single soul. See! Allah is Hearer, Knower.

> <span id="v29">29</span> Have you not seen how Allah causes the night to pass into the day and causes the day to pass into the night, and has subdued the sun and the moon (to do their work), each running to an appointed term; and that Allah is Informed of what you do ?

> <span id="v30">30</span> That (is so) because Allah, He is the True, and that which they invoke beside Him is the False, and because Allah, He is the Sublime, the Great.

> <span id="v31">31</span> Have you not seen how the ships glide on the sea by Allah's grace, that He may show you of His wonders ? See! therein indeed are portents for every steadfast, grateful (heart).

> <span id="v32">32</span> And if a wave enshrouds them like awnings, they cry to Allah, making their faith pure for Him only. But when He brings them safe to land, some of them compromise. None denies Our signs save every traitor ingrate.

> <span id="v33">33</span> O mankind! Keep your duty to your Lord and fear a Day when the parent will not be able to avail the child in aught, nor the child to avail the parent. See! Allah's promise is the very truth. Let not the life of the world beguile you, nor let the deceiver beguile you, in regard to Allah.

> <span id="v34">34</span> See! Allah! With Him is knowledge of the Hour. He sendeth down the rain, and knows that which is in the wombs. No soul knows what it will earn to- morrow, and no soul knows in what land it will die. See! Allah is Knower, Aware.
