---
layout: surah
title: Surah 36
search: true
permalink: /quran/36/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> Ya Sin.

> <span id="v2">2</span> By the wise Qur'an,

> <span id="v3">3</span> See! you are of those sent

> <span id="v4">4</span> On a straight path,

> <span id="v5">5</span> A revelation of the Mighty, the Merciful,

> <span id="v6">6</span> That you mayst warn a folk whose fathers were not warned, so they are heedless.

> <span id="v7">7</span> Already has the judgment, (for their infidelity) proved true of most of them, for they believe not.

> <span id="v8">8</span> See! We have put on their necks carcans reaching to the chins, so that they are made stiff-necked.

> <span id="v9">9</span> And We have set a bar before them and a bar behind them, and (thus) have covered them so that they see not.

> <span id="v10">10</span> Whether you warn them or you warn them not, it is alike for them, for they believe not.

> <span id="v11">11</span> You warnest only him who followeth the Reminder and feareth the Beneficent in secret. To him bear tidings of forgiveness and a rich reward.

> <span id="v12">12</span> See! We it is Who bring the dead to life. We record that which they send before (them, and their footprints. And all things We have kept in a clear Register.

> <span id="v13">13</span> Coin for them a similitude: The people of the city when those sent (from Allah) came to them;

> <span id="v14">14</span> When We sent to them twain, and they denied them both, so We reinforced them with a third, and they said: See! we have been sent to you.

> <span id="v15">15</span> They said: Ye are but mortals like to us. The Beneficent has nothing revealed. Ye do but lie!

> <span id="v16">16</span> They answered: Our Lord knows that we are indeed sent to you,

> <span id="v17">17</span> And our duty is but plain conveyance (of the message).

> <span id="v18">18</span> (The people of the city) said: We augur ill of you. If you desist not, we shall surely stone you, and grievous torture will befall you at our hands.

> <span id="v19">19</span> They said: Your evil augury be with you! Is it because you are reminded (of the truth) ? No, but you are contrary folk!

> <span id="v20">20</span> And there came from the uttermost part of the city a man running. He cried: O my people! Follow those who have been sent!

> <span id="v21">21</span> Follow those who ask of you no fee, and who are rightly guided.

> <span id="v22">22</span> For what cause should I not serve Him Who has created me, and to Whom you will be brought back ?

> <span id="v23">23</span> Shall I take (other) gods in place of Him when, if the Beneficent should wish me any harm, their intercession will avail me nothing, nor can they save ?

> <span id="v24">24</span> Then truly I should be in error manifest.

> <span id="v25">25</span> See! I have believed in your Lord, so hear me!

> <span id="v26">26</span> It was said (unto him): Enter paradise. He said: Would that my people knew

> <span id="v27">27</span> With what (munificence) my Lord has pardoned me and made me of the honoured ones!

> <span id="v28">28</span> We sent not down against his people after him a host from heaven, nor do We ever send.

> <span id="v29">29</span> It was but one Shout, and see! they were extinct.

> <span id="v30">30</span> Ah, the anguish for the bondmen! Never came there to them a messenger but they did mock him!

> <span id="v31">31</span> Have they not seen how many generations We destroyed before them, which indeed returned not to them;

> <span id="v32">32</span> But all, without exception, will be brought before Us.

> <span id="v33">33</span> A token to them is the dead earth. We revive it, and We bring forth from it grain so that they eat thereof;

> <span id="v34">34</span> And We have placed therein gardens of the date-palm and grapes, and We have caused springs of water to gush forth therein,

> <span id="v35">35</span> That they may eat of the fruit thereof, and their hands made it not. Will they not, then, give thanks ?

> <span id="v36">36</span> Glory be to Him Who created all the sexual pairs, of that which the earth groweth, and of themselves, and of that which they know not!

> <span id="v37">37</span> A token to them is night. We strip it of the day, and see! they are in darkness.

> <span id="v38">38</span> And the sun runneth on to a resting-place for him. That is the measuring of the Mighty, the Wise.

> <span id="v39">39</span> And for the moon We have appointed mansions till she return like an old shrivelled palm-leaf.

> <span id="v40">40</span> It is not for the sun to overtake the moon, nor doth the night outstrip the day. They float each in an orbit.

> <span id="v41">41</span> And a token to them is that We bear their offspring in the laden ship,

> <span id="v42">42</span> And have created for them of the like thereof whereon they ride.

> <span id="v43">43</span> And if We will, We drown them, and there is no help for them, neither can they be saved;

> <span id="v44">44</span> Unless by mercy from Us and as comfort for a while.

> <span id="v45">45</span> When it is said to them: Beware of that which is before you and that which is behind you, that haply you may find mercy (they are heedless).

> <span id="v46">46</span> Never came a token of the tokens of their Lord to them, but they did turn away from it!

> <span id="v47">47</span> And when it is said to them: Spend of that wherewith Allah has provided you, those who disbelieve say to those who believe: Shall we feed those whom Allah, if He willed, would feed ? Ye are in nothing else than error manifest.

> <span id="v48">48</span> And they say: When will this promise be fulfilled, if you are truthful ?

> <span id="v49">49</span> They await but one Shout, which will surprise them while they are disputing.

> <span id="v50">50</span> Then they cannot make bequest, nor can they return to their own folk.

> <span id="v51">51</span> And the trumpet is blown and see! from the graves they hie to their Lord,

> <span id="v52">52</span> Crying: Woe upon us! Who has raised us from our place of sleep ? This is that which the Beneficent did promise, and the messengers spoke truth.

> <span id="v53">53</span> It is but one Shout, and behold them brought together before Us!

> <span id="v54">54</span> This day no soul is wronged in aught; nor are you requited aught save what you used to do.

> <span id="v55">55</span> See! those who merit paradise this day are happily employed,

> <span id="v56">56</span> They and their wives, in pleasant shade, on thrones reclining;

> <span id="v57">57</span> Theirs the fruit (of their good deeds) and theirs (all) that they ask;

> <span id="v58">58</span> The word from a Merciful Lord (for them) is: Peace!

> <span id="v59">59</span> But avaunt ye, O you guilty, this day!

> <span id="v60">60</span> Did I not charge you, O you sons of Adam, that you worship not the devil - See! he is your open foe! -

> <span id="v61">61</span> But that you worship Me ? That was the right path.

> <span id="v62">62</span> Yet he has led astray of you a great multitude. Had you then no sense ?

> <span id="v63">63</span> This is hell which you were promised (if you followed him).

> <span id="v64">64</span> Burn therein this day for that you disbelieved.

> <span id="v65">65</span> This day We seal up their mouths, and their hands speak out to Us and their feet bear witness as to what they used to earn.

> <span id="v66">66</span> And had We willed, We verily could have quenched their eyesight so that they should struggle for the way. Then how could they have seen ?

> <span id="v67">67</span> And had We willed, We verily could have fixed them in their place, making them powerless to go forward or turn back.

> <span id="v68">68</span> He whom we bring to old age, We reverse him in creation (making him go back to weakness after strength). Have you then no sense ?

> <span id="v69">69</span> And We have not taught him (Muhammad) poetry, nor is it meet for him. This is nothing else than a Reminder and a Lecture making plain,

> <span id="v70">70</span> To warn whosoever liveth, and that the word may be fulfilled against the disbelievers.

> <span id="v71">71</span> Have they not seen how We have created for them of Our handiwork the cattle, so that they are their owners,

> <span id="v72">72</span> And have subdued them to them, so that some of them they have for riding, some for food ?

> <span id="v73">73</span> Benefits and (divers) drinks have they from them. Will they not then give thanks ?

> <span id="v74">74</span> And they have taken (other) gods beside Allah, in order that they may be helped.

> <span id="v75">75</span> It is not in their power to help them; but they (the worshippers) are to them a host in arms.

> <span id="v76">76</span> So let not their speech grieve you (O Muhammad). See! We know what they conceal and what proclaim.

> <span id="v77">77</span> Hath not man seen that We have created him from a drop of seed ? Yet see! he is an open opponent.

> <span id="v78">78</span> And he has coined for Us a similitude, and has forgotten the fact of his creation, saying: Who will revive these bones when they have rotted away ?

> <span id="v79">79</span> Say: He will revive them Who produced them at the first, for He is Knower of every creation,

> <span id="v80">80</span> Who has appointed for you fire from the green tree, and behold! you kindle from it.

> <span id="v81">81</span> Is not He Who created the heavens and the earth Able to create the like of them ? Aye, that He is! for He is the All-Wise Creator,

> <span id="v82">82</span> But His command, when He intendeth a thing, is only that He said to it: Be! and it is.

> <span id="v83">83</span> Therefor Glory be to Him in Whose hand is the dominion over all things! Unto Him you will be brought back.
