---
layout: surah
title: Surah 37
search: true
permalink: /quran/37/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> By those who set the ranks in battle order

> <span id="v2">2</span> And those who drive away (the wicked) with reproof

> <span id="v3">3</span> And those who read (the Word) for a reminder,

> <span id="v4">4</span> See! your Lord is surely One;

> <span id="v5">5</span> Lord of the heavens and of the earth and all that is between them, and Lord of the sun's risings.

> <span id="v6">6</span> See! We have adorned the lowest heaven with an ornament, the planets;

> <span id="v7">7</span> With security from every froward devil.

> <span id="v8">8</span> They cannot listen to the Highest Chiefs for they are pelted from every side,

> <span id="v9">9</span> Outcast, and theirs is a perpetual torment;

> <span id="v10">10</span> Save him who snatcheth a fragment, and there pursueth him a piercing flame.

> <span id="v11">11</span> Then ask them (O Muhammad): Are they stronger as a creation, or those (others) whom we have created ? See! We created them of plastic clay.

> <span id="v12">12</span> Nay, but you dost marvel when they mock

> <span id="v13">13</span> And heed not when they are reminded,

> <span id="v14">14</span> And seek to scoff when they behold a portent.

> <span id="v15">15</span> And they say: See! this is mere magic;

> <span id="v16">16</span> When we are dead and have become dust and bones, shall we then, forsooth, be raised (again) ?

> <span id="v17">17</span> And our forefathers ?

> <span id="v18">18</span> Say (O Muhammad): Ye, in truth; and you will be brought low.

> <span id="v19">19</span> There is but one Shout, and lo! they behold,

> <span id="v20">20</span> And say: Ah, woe for us! This is the Day of Judgment.

> <span id="v21">21</span> This is the Day of Separation, which you used to deny.

> <span id="v22">22</span> (And it is said unto the angels): Assemble those who did wrong, together with their wives and what they used to worship

> <span id="v23">23</span> Instead of Allah, and lead them to the path to hell;

> <span id="v24">24</span> And stop them, for they must be questioned.

> <span id="v25">25</span> What aileth you that you help not one another ?

> <span id="v26">26</span> Nay, but this day they make full submission.

> <span id="v27">27</span> And some of them draw near unto others, mutually questioning.

> <span id="v28">28</span> They say: See! you used to come unto us, imposing, (swearing that you spoke the truth).

> <span id="v29">29</span> They answer: Nay, but you (yourselves) were not believers.

> <span id="v30">30</span> We had no power over you, but you were wayward folk.

> <span id="v31">31</span> Now the Word of our Lord has been fulfilled concerning us. See! we are about to taste (the doom).

> <span id="v32">32</span> Thus we misled you. See! we were (ourselves) astray.

> <span id="v33">33</span> Then lo! this day they (both) are sharers in the doom.

> <span id="v34">34</span> See! thus deal We with the guilty.

> <span id="v35">35</span> For when it was said unto them, There is no God save Allah, they were scornful

> <span id="v36">36</span> And said: Shall we forsake our gods for a mad poet ?

> <span id="v37">37</span> Nay, but he brought the Truth, and he confirmed those sent (before him).

> <span id="v38">38</span> See! (now) verily you taste the painful doom -

> <span id="v39">39</span> Ye are requited naught save what you did -

> <span id="v40">40</span> Save single-minded slaves of Allah;

> <span id="v41">41</span> For them there is a known provision,

> <span id="v42">42</span> Fruits. And they will be honoured

> <span id="v43">43</span> In the Gardens of delight,

> <span id="v44">44</span> On couches facing one another;

> <span id="v45">45</span> A cup from a gushing spring is brought round for them,

> <span id="v46">46</span> White, delicious to the drinkers,

> <span id="v47">47</span> Wherein there is no headache nor are they made mad thereby.

> <span id="v48">48</span> And with them are those of modest gaze, with lovely eyes,

> <span id="v49">49</span> (Pure) as they were hidden eggs (of the ostrich).

> <span id="v50">50</span> And some of them draw near unto others, mutually questioning.

> <span id="v51">51</span> A speaker of them saith: See! I had a comrade

> <span id="v52">52</span> Who used to say: Art you in truth of those who put faith (in his words) ?

> <span id="v53">53</span> Can we, when we are dead and have become mere dust and bones - can we (then) verily be brought to book ?

> <span id="v54">54</span> He saith: Will you look ?

> <span id="v55">55</span> Then looketh he and seeth him in the depth of hell.

> <span id="v56">56</span> He saith: By Allah, you verily didst all but cause my ruin,

> <span id="v57">57</span> And had it not been for the favour of my Lord, I too had been of those haled forth (to doom).

> <span id="v58">58</span> Are we then not to die

> <span id="v59">59</span> Saving our former death, and are we not to be punished ?

> <span id="v60">60</span> See! this is the supreme triumph.

> <span id="v61">61</span> For the like of this, then, let the workers work.

> <span id="v62">62</span> Is this better as a welcome, or the tree of Zaqqum ?

> <span id="v63">63</span> See! We have appointed it a torment for wrong-doers.

> <span id="v64">64</span> See! it is a tree that springeth in the heart of hell.

> <span id="v65">65</span> Its crop is as it were the heads of devils

> <span id="v66">66</span> And lo! they verily must eat thereof, and fill (their) bellies therewith.

> <span id="v67">67</span> And afterward, lo! thereupon they have a drink of boiling water

> <span id="v68">68</span> And afterward, lo! their return is surely unto hell.

> <span id="v69">69</span> They indeed found their fathers astray,

> <span id="v70">70</span> But they make haste (to follow) in their footsteps.

> <span id="v71">71</span> And verily most of the men of old went astray before them,

> <span id="v72">72</span> And verily We sent among them warners.

> <span id="v73">73</span> Then see the nature of the consequence for those warned,

> <span id="v74">74</span> Save single-minded slaves of Allah.

> <span id="v75">75</span> And Noah verily prayed unto Us, and gracious was the Hearer of his prayer

> <span id="v76">76</span> And We saved him and his household from the great distress,

> <span id="v77">77</span> And made his seed the survivors,

> <span id="v78">78</span> And left for him among the later folk (the salutation):

> <span id="v79">79</span> Peace be unto Noah among the peoples!

> <span id="v80">80</span> See! thus do We reward the good.

> <span id="v81">81</span> See! he is one of Our believing slaves.

> <span id="v82">82</span> Then We did drown the others.

> <span id="v83">83</span> And lo! of his persuasion verily was Abraham

> <span id="v84">84</span> When he came unto his Lord with a whole heart;

> <span id="v85">85</span> When he said unto his father and his folk: What is it that you worship ?

> <span id="v86">86</span> Is it a falsehood - gods beside Allah - that you desire ?

> <span id="v87">87</span> What then is your opinion of the Lord of the Worlds ?

> <span id="v88">88</span> And he glanced a glance at the stars

> <span id="v89">89</span> Then said: See! I feel sick!

> <span id="v90">90</span> And they turned their backs and went away from him.

> <span id="v91">91</span> Then turned he to their gods and said: Will you not eat ?

> <span id="v92">92</span> What aileth you that you speak not ?

> <span id="v93">93</span> Then he attacked them, striking with his right hand.

> <span id="v94">94</span> And (his people) came toward him, hastening.

> <span id="v95">95</span> He said: Worship you that which you yourselves do carve

> <span id="v96">96</span> When Allah has created you and what you make ?

> <span id="v97">97</span> They said: Build for him a building and fling him in the red-hotfire.

> <span id="v98">98</span> And they designed a snare for him, but We made them the undermost.

> <span id="v99">99</span> And he said: See! I am going unto my Lord Who will guide me.

> <span id="v100">100</span> My Lord! Vouchsafe me of the righteous.

> <span id="v101">101</span> So We gave him tidings of a gentle son.

> <span id="v102">102</span> And when (his son) was old enough to walk with him, (Abraham) said: O my dear son, I have seen in a dream that I must sacrifice thee. So look, what thinkest you ? He said: O my father! Do that which you art commanded. Allah willing, you shalt find me of the steadfast.

> <span id="v103">103</span> Then, when they had both surrendered (to Allah), and he had flung him down upon his face,

> <span id="v104">104</span> We called unto him: O Abraham!

> <span id="v105">105</span> You hast already fulfilled the vision. See! thus do We reward the good.

> <span id="v106">106</span> See! that verily was a clear test.

> <span id="v107">107</span> Then We ransomed him with a tremendous victim.

> <span id="v108">108</span> And We left for him among the later folk (the salutation):

> <span id="v109">109</span> Peace be unto Abraham!

> <span id="v110">110</span> Thus do We reward the good.

> <span id="v111">111</span> See! he is one of Our believing slaves.

> <span id="v112">112</span> And we gave him tidings of the birth of Isaac, a prophet of the righteous.

> <span id="v113">113</span> And We blessed him and Isaac. And of their seed are some who do good, and some who plainly wrong themselves.

> <span id="v114">114</span> And We verily gave grace unto Moses and Aaron,

> <span id="v115">115</span> And saved them and their people from the great distress,

> <span id="v116">116</span> And helped them so that they became the victors.

> <span id="v117">117</span> And We gave them the clear Scripture

> <span id="v118">118</span> And showed them the right path.

> <span id="v119">119</span> And We left for them among the later folk (the salutation):

> <span id="v120">120</span> Peace be unto Moses and Aaron!

> <span id="v121">121</span> See! thus do We reward the good.

> <span id="v122">122</span> See! they are two of Our believing slaves.

> <span id="v123">123</span> And lo! Elias was of those sent (to warn),

> <span id="v124">124</span> When he said unto his folk: Will you not ward off (evil) ?

> <span id="v125">125</span> Will you cry unto Baal and forsake the Best of creators,

> <span id="v126">126</span> Allah, your Lord and Lord of your forefathers ?

> <span id="v127">127</span> But they denied him, so they surely will be haled forth (to the doom)

> <span id="v128">128</span> Save single-minded slaves of Allah.

> <span id="v129">129</span> And we left for him among the later folk (the salutation):

> <span id="v130">130</span> Peace be unto Elias!

> <span id="v131">131</span> See! thus do We reward the good.

> <span id="v132">132</span> See! he is one of our believing slaves.

> <span id="v133">133</span> And lo! Lot verily was of those sent (to warn).

> <span id="v134">134</span> When We saved him and his household, every one,

> <span id="v135">135</span> Save an old woman among those who stayed behind;

> <span id="v136">136</span> Then We destroyed the others.

> <span id="v137">137</span> And lo! you verily pass by (the ruin of) them in the morning

> <span id="v138">138</span> And at night-time; have you then no sense ?

> <span id="v139">139</span> And lo! Jonah verily was of those sent (to warn)

> <span id="v140">140</span> When he fled unto the laden ship,

> <span id="v141">141</span> And then drew lots and was of those rejected;

> <span id="v142">142</span> And the fish swallowed him while he was blameworthy;

> <span id="v143">143</span> And had he not been one of those who glorify (Allah)

> <span id="v144">144</span> He would have tarried in its belly till the day when they are raised;

> <span id="v145">145</span> Then We cast him on a desert shore while he was sick;

> <span id="v146">146</span> And We caused a tree of gourd to grow above him;

> <span id="v147">147</span> And We sent him to a hundred thousand (folk) or more

> <span id="v148">148</span> And they believed, therefor We gave them comfort for a while.

> <span id="v149">149</span> Now ask them (O Muhammad): Hath your Lord daughters whereas they have sons ?

> <span id="v150">150</span> Or created We the angels females while they were present ?

> <span id="v151">151</span> See! it is of their falsehood that they say:

> <span id="v152">152</span> Allah has begotten. Allah! verily they tell a lie.

> <span id="v153">153</span> (And again of their falsehood): He has preferred daughters to sons.

> <span id="v154">154</span> What aileth you ? How judge you ?

> <span id="v155">155</span> Will you not then reflect ?

> <span id="v156">156</span> Or have you a clear warrant ?

> <span id="v157">157</span> Then produce your writ, if you are truthful.

> <span id="v158">158</span> And they imagine kinship between him and the jinn, whereas the jinn know well that they will be brought before (Him).

> <span id="v159">159</span> Glorified be Allah from that which they attribute (unto Him),

> <span id="v160">160</span> Save single-minded slaves of Allah.

> <span id="v161">161</span> See! verily, you and that which you worship,

> <span id="v162">162</span> Ye cannot excite (anyone) against Him.

> <span id="v163">163</span> Save him who is to burn in hell.

> <span id="v164">164</span> There is not one of us but has his known position.

> <span id="v165">165</span> See! we, even we are they who set the ranks,

> <span id="v166">166</span> See! we, even we are they who hymn His praise

> <span id="v167">167</span> And indeed they used to say:

> <span id="v168">168</span> If we had but a reminder from the men of old

> <span id="v169">169</span> We would be single-minded slaves of Allah.

> <span id="v170">170</span> Yet (now that it is come) they disbelieve therein; but they will come to know.

> <span id="v171">171</span> And verily Our word went forth of old unto Our bondmen sent (to warn)

> <span id="v172">172</span> That they verily would be helped,

> <span id="v173">173</span> And that Our host, they verily would be the victors.

> <span id="v174">174</span> So withdraw from them (O Muhammad) awhile,

> <span id="v175">175</span> And watch, for they will (soon) see.

> <span id="v176">176</span> Would they hasten on Our doom ?

> <span id="v177">177</span> But when it cometh home to them, then it will be a hapless morn for those who have been warned.

> <span id="v178">178</span> Withdraw from them awhile

> <span id="v179">179</span> And watch, for they will (soon) see.

> <span id="v180">180</span> Glorified be your Lord, the Lord of Majesty, from that which they attribute (unto Him)

> <span id="v181">181</span> And peace be unto those sent (to warn).

> <span id="v182">182</span> And praise be to Allah, Lord of the Worlds!
