---
layout: surah
title: Surah 38
search: true
permalink: /quran/38/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> Sad. By the renowned Qur'an,

> <span id="v2">2</span> No, but those who disbelieve are in false pride and schism.

> <span id="v3">3</span> How many a generation We destroyed before them, and they cried out when it was no longer the time for escape!

> <span id="v4">4</span> And they marvel that a warner from among themselves has come unto them, and the disbelievers say: This is a wizard, a charlatan.

> <span id="v5">5</span> Maketh he the gods One God ? See! that is an astounding thing.

> <span id="v6">6</span> The chiefs among them go about, exhorting: Go and be staunch to your gods! See! this is a thing designed.

> <span id="v7">7</span> We have not heard of this in later religion. This is naught but an invention.

> <span id="v8">8</span> Hath the reminder been unto him (alone) among us ? No, but they are in doubt concerning My reminder; nay but they have not yet tasted My doom.

> <span id="v9">9</span> Or are theirs the treasures of the mercy of your Lord, the Mighty, the Bestower ?

> <span id="v10">10</span> Or is the kingdom of the heavens and the earth and all that is between them theirs ? Then let them ascend by ropes!

> <span id="v11">11</span> A defeated host are (all) the factions that are there.

> <span id="v12">12</span> The folk of Noah before them denied (their messenger) and (so did the tribe of) A'ad, and Pharaoh firmly planted,

> <span id="v13">13</span> And (the tribe of) Thamud, and the folk of Lot, and the dwellers in the wood: these were the factions.

> <span id="v14">14</span> Not one of them but did deny the messengers, therefor My doom was justified,

> <span id="v15">15</span> These wait for but one Shout, there will be no second thereto.

> <span id="v16">16</span> They say: Our Lord! Hasten on for us our fate before the Day of Reckoning.

> <span id="v17">17</span> Bear with what they say, and remember Our bondman David, lord of might, See! he was ever turning in repentance (toward Allah).

> <span id="v18">18</span> See! We subdued the hills to hymn the praises (of their Lord) with him at nightfall and sunrise,

> <span id="v19">19</span> And the birds assembled; all were turning unto Him.

> <span id="v20">20</span> We made his kingdom strong and gave him wisdom and decisive speech.

> <span id="v21">21</span> And has the story of the litigants come unto you ? How they climbed the wall into the royal chamber;

> <span id="v22">22</span> How they burst in upon David, and he was afraid of them. They said: Be not afraid! (We are) two litigants, one of whom has wronged the other, therefor judge aright between us; be not unjust; and show us the fair way.

> <span id="v23">23</span> See! this my brother has ninety and nine ewes while I had one ewe; and he said: Entrust it to me, and he conquered me in speech.

> <span id="v24">24</span> (David) said: He has wronged you in demanding thine ewe in addition to his ewes, and see! many partners oppress one another, save such as believe and do good works, and they are few. And David guessed that We had tried him, and he sought forgiveness of his Lord, and he bowed himself and fell down prostrate and repented.

> <span id="v25">25</span> So We forgave him that; and see! he had access to Our presence and a happy journey's end.

> <span id="v26">26</span> (And it was said unto him): O David! See! We have set you as a viceroy in the earth; therefor judge aright between mankind, and follow not desire that it beguile you from the way of Allah. See! those who wander from the way of Allah have an awful doom, forasmuch as they forgot the Day of Reckoning.

> <span id="v27">27</span> And We created not the heaven and the earth and all that is between them in vain. That is the opinion of those who disbelieve. And woe unto those who disbelieve, from the Fire!

> <span id="v28">28</span> Shall We treat those who believe and do good works as those who spread corruption in the earth; or shall We treat the pious as the wicked ?

> <span id="v29">29</span> (This is) a Scripture that We have revealed unto thee, full of blessing, that they may ponder its revelations, and that men of understanding may reflect.

> <span id="v30">30</span> And We bestowed on David, Solomon. How excellent a slave! See! he was ever turning in repentance (toward Allah).

> <span id="v31">31</span> When there were shown to him at eventide lightfooted coursers

> <span id="v32">32</span> And he said: See! I have preferred the good things (of the world) to the remembrance of my Lord; till they were taken out of sight behind the curtain.

> <span id="v33">33</span> (Then he said): Bring them back to me, and fell to slashing (with his sword their) legs and necks.

> <span id="v34">34</span> And verily We tried Solomon, and set upon his throne a (mere) body. Then did he repent.

> <span id="v35">35</span> He said: My Lord! Forgive me and bestow on me sovereignty such as shall not belong to any after me. See! You art the Bestower.

> <span id="v36">36</span> So We made the wind subservient unto him, setting fair by his command whithersoever he intended.

> <span id="v37">37</span> And the unruly, every builder and diver (made We subservient),

> <span id="v38">38</span> And others linked together in chains,

> <span id="v39">39</span> (Saying): This is Our gift, so bestow thou, or withhold, without reckoning.

> <span id="v40">40</span> And see! he has favour with Us, and a happy journey's end.

> <span id="v41">41</span> And make mention (O Muhammad) of Our bondman Job, when he cried unto his Lord (saying): See! the devil doth afflict me with distress and torment.

> <span id="v42">42</span> (And it was said unto him): Strike the ground with your foot. This (spring) is a cool bath and a refreshing drink.

> <span id="v43">43</span> And We bestowed on him (again) his household and therewith the like thereof, a mercy from Us, and a memorial for men of understanding.

> <span id="v44">44</span> And (it was said unto him): Take in thine hand a branch and smite therewith, and break not thine oath. See! We found him steadfast, how excellent a slave! See! he was ever turning in repentance (to his Lord).

> <span id="v45">45</span> And make mention of Our bondmen, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, men of parts and vision.

> <span id="v46">46</span> See! We purified them with a pure thought, remembrance of the Home (of the Hereafter).

> <span id="v47">47</span> See! in Our sight they are verily of the elect, the excellent.

> <span id="v48">48</span> And make mention of Ishmael and Elisha and Dhu'l-Kifl. All are of the chosen.

> <span id="v49">49</span> This is a reminder. And see! for those who ward off (evil) is a happy journey's end,

> <span id="v50">50</span> Gardens of Eden, whereof the gates are opened for them,

> <span id="v51">51</span> Wherein, reclining, they call for plenteous fruit and cool drink (that is) therein.

> <span id="v52">52</span> And with them are those of modest gaze, companions.

> <span id="v53">53</span> This it is that you are promised for the Day of Reckoning.

> <span id="v54">54</span> See! this in truth is Our provision, which will never waste away.

> <span id="v55">55</span> This (is for the righteous). And see! for the transgressors there with be an evil journey's end,

> <span id="v56">56</span> Hell, where they will burn, an evil resting-place.

> <span id="v57">57</span> Here is a boiling and an ice-cold draught, so let them taste it,

> <span id="v58">58</span> And other (torment) of the kind in pairs (the two extremes)!

> <span id="v59">59</span> Here is an army rushing blindly with you. (Those who are already in the Fire say): No word of welcome for them. See! they will roast at the Fire.

> <span id="v60">60</span> They say: No, but you (misleaders), for you there is no word of welcome. Ye prepared this for us (by your misleading). Now hapless is the plight.

> <span id="v61">61</span> They say: Our Lord! Whoever did prepare this for us, oh, give him double portion of the Fire!

> <span id="v62">62</span> And they say: What ails us that we behold not men whom we were wont to count among the wicked ?

> <span id="v63">63</span> Did we take them (wrongly) for a laughing-stock, or have our eyes missed them ?

> <span id="v64">64</span> See! that is very truth: the wrangling of the dwellers in the Fire.

> <span id="v65">65</span> Say (unto them, O Muhammad): I am only a warner, and there is no God save Allah, the One, the Absolute,

> <span id="v66">66</span> Lord of the heavens and the earth and all that is between them, the Mighty, the Pardoning.

> <span id="v67">67</span> Say: It is tremendous tidings

> <span id="v68">68</span> Whence you turn away!

> <span id="v69">69</span> I had no knowledge of the Highest Chiefs when they disputed;

> <span id="v70">70</span> It is revealed unto me only that I may be a plain warner.

> <span id="v71">71</span> When your Lord said unto the angels: See! I am about to create a mortal out of mire,

> <span id="v72">72</span> And when I have fashioned him and breathed into him of My Spirit, then fall down before him prostrate,

> <span id="v73">73</span> The angels fell down prostrate, every one,

> <span id="v74">74</span> Saving Iblis; he was scornful and became one of the disbelievers.

> <span id="v75">75</span> He said: O Iblis! What hindereth you from falling prostrate before that which I have created with both My hands ? Art you too proud or art you of the high exalted ?

> <span id="v76">76</span> He said: I am better than him. You createdst me of fire, whilst him You didst create of clay.

> <span id="v77">77</span> He said: Go forth from hence, for see! you art outcast,

> <span id="v78">78</span> And see! My curse is on you till the Day of Judgment.

> <span id="v79">79</span> He said: My Lord! Reprieve me till the day when they are raised.

> <span id="v80">80</span> He said: See! you art of those reprieved

> <span id="v81">81</span> Until the day of the time appointed.

> <span id="v82">82</span> He said: Then, by your might, I surely will beguile them every one,

> <span id="v83">83</span> Save your single-minded slaves among them.

> <span id="v84">84</span> He said: The Truth is, and the Truth I speak,

> <span id="v85">85</span> That I shall fill hell with you and with such of them as follow thee, together.

> <span id="v86">86</span> Say (O Muhammad, unto mankind): I ask of you no fee for this, and I am no simulating.

> <span id="v87">87</span> See! it is naught else than a reminder for all peoples

> <span id="v88">88</span> And you will come in time to know the truth thereof.
