---
layout: surah
title: Surah 50
search: true
permalink: /quran/50/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> Qaf. By the Glorious Qur'an,

> <span id="v2">2</span> No, but they marvel that a warner of their own has come to them; and the disbelievers say: This is a strange thing:

> <span id="v3">3</span> When we are dead and have become dust (shall we be brought back again) ? That would be a far return!

> <span id="v4">4</span> We know that which the earth taketh of them, and with Us is a recording Book.

> <span id="v5">5</span> No, but they have denied the truth when it came to them, therefor they are now in troubled case.

> <span id="v6">6</span> Have they not then observed the sky above them, how We have constructed it and beautified it, and how there are no rifts therein ?

> <span id="v7">7</span> And the earth have We spread out, and have flung firm hills therein, and have caused of every lovely kind to grow thereon,

> <span id="v8">8</span> A vision and a reminder for every penitent slave.

> <span id="v9">9</span> And We send down from the sky blessed water whereby We give growth to gardens and the grain of crops,

> <span id="v10">10</span> And lofty date-palms with ranged clusters,

> <span id="v11">11</span> Provision (made) for men; and therewith We quicken a dead land. Even so will be the resurrection of the dead.

> <span id="v12">12</span> The folk of Noah denied (the truth) before them, and (so did) the dwellers at Ar-Rass and (the tribe of) Thamud,

> <span id="v13">13</span> And (the tribe of) A'ad, and Pharaoh, and the brethren of Lot,

> <span id="v14">14</span> And the dwellers in the wood, and the folk of Tubb'a: every one denied their messengers, therefor My threat took effect.

> <span id="v15">15</span> Were We then worn out by the first creation ? Yet they are in doubt about a new creation.

> <span id="v16">16</span> We verily created man and We know what his soul whispereth to him, and We are nearer to him than his jugular vein.

> <span id="v17">17</span> When the two Receivers receive (him), seated on the right hand and on the left,

> <span id="v18">18</span> He uttereth no word but there is with him an observer ready.

> <span id="v19">19</span> And the agony of death cometh in truth. (And it is said to him): This is that which you wast wont to shun.

> <span id="v20">20</span> And the trumpet is blown. This is the threatened Day.

> <span id="v21">21</span> And every soul cometh, along with it a driver and a witness.

> <span id="v22">22</span> (And to the evil-doer it is said): You wast in heedlessness of this. Now We have removed from you your covering, and piercing is your sight this day.

> <span id="v23">23</span> And (unto the evil-doer) his comrade said: This is that which I have ready (as testimony).

> <span id="v24">24</span> (And it is said): Do you twain hurl to hell each rebel ingrate,

> <span id="v25">25</span> Hinderer of good, transgressor, doubter,

> <span id="v26">26</span> Who setteth up another god along with Allah. Do you twain hurl him to the dreadful doom.

> <span id="v27">27</span> His comrade said: Our Lord! I did not cause him to rebel, but he was (himself) far gone in error.

> <span id="v28">28</span> He said: Contend not in My presence, when I had already proffered to you the warning.

> <span id="v29">29</span> The sentence that cometh from Me cannot be changed, and I am in no wise a tyrant to the slaves.

> <span id="v30">30</span> On the day when We say to hell: Art you filled ? and it said: Can there be more to come ?

> <span id="v31">31</span> And the Garden is brought nigh for those who kept from evil, no longer distant.

> <span id="v32">32</span> (And it is said): This is that which you were promised. (It is) for every penitent and heedful one,

> <span id="v33">33</span> Who feareth the Beneficent in secret and cometh with a contrite heart.

> <span id="v34">34</span> Enter it in peace. This is the day of immortality.

> <span id="v35">35</span> There they have all that they desire, and there is more with Us.

> <span id="v36">36</span> And how many a generation We destroyed before them, who were mightier than these in prowess so that they overran the lands! Had they any place of refuge (when the judgment came) ?

> <span id="v37">37</span> See! therein verily is a reminder for him who has a heart, or giveth ear with full intelligence.

> <span id="v38">38</span> And verily We created the heavens and the earth, and all that is between them, in six Days, and nothing of weariness touched Us.

> <span id="v39">39</span> Therefor (O Muhammad) bear with what they say, and hymn the praise of your Lord before the rising and before the setting of the sun;

> <span id="v40">40</span> And in the night-time hymn His praise, and after the (prescribed) prostrations.

> <span id="v41">41</span> And listen on the day when the crier crieth from a near place,

> <span id="v42">42</span> The day when they will hear the (Awful) Cry in truth. That is the day of coming forth (from the graves).

> <span id="v43">43</span> See! We it is Who quicken and give death, and to Us is the journeying.

> <span id="v44">44</span> On the day when the earth splitteth asunder from them, hastening forth (they come). That is a gathering easy for Us (to make).

> <span id="v45">45</span> We are Best Aware of what they say, and you (O Muhammad) art in no wise a compeller over them. But warn by the Qur'an him who feareth My threat.
