---
layout: surah
title: Surah 51
search: true
permalink: /quran/51/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> By those that winnow with a winnowing

> <span id="v2">2</span> And those that bear the burden (of the rain)

> <span id="v3">3</span> And those that glide with ease (upon the sea)

> <span id="v4">4</span> And those who distribute (blessings) by command,

> <span id="v5">5</span> See! that wherewith you are threatened is indeed true,

> <span id="v6">6</span> And see! the judgment will indeed befall.

> <span id="v7">7</span> By the heaven full of paths,

> <span id="v8">8</span> See! ye, forsooth, are of various opinion (concerning the truth).

> <span id="v9">9</span> He is made to turn away from it who is (himself) averse.

> <span id="v10">10</span> Accursed be the conjecturers

> <span id="v11">11</span> Who are careless in an abyss!

> <span id="v12">12</span> They ask: When is the Day of Judgment ?

> <span id="v13">13</span> (It is) the day when they will be tormented at the Fire,

> <span id="v14">14</span> (And it will be said unto them): Taste your torment (which you inflicted). This is what you sought to hasten.

> <span id="v15">15</span> See! those who keep from evil will dwell amid gardens and watersprings,

> <span id="v16">16</span> Taking that which their Lord giveth them; for see! aforetime they were doers of good;

> <span id="v17">17</span> They used to sleep but little of the night,

> <span id="v18">18</span> And ere the dawning of each day would seek forgiveness,

> <span id="v19">19</span> And in their wealth the beggar and the outcast had due share.

> <span id="v20">20</span> And in the earth are portents for those whose faith is sure.

> <span id="v21">21</span> And (also) in yourselves. Can you then not see ?

> <span id="v22">22</span> And in the heaven is your providence and that which you are promised;

> <span id="v23">23</span> And by the Lord of the heavens and the earth, it is the truth, even as (it is true) that you speak.

> <span id="v24">24</span> Hath the story of Abraham's honoured guests reached you (O Muhammad) ?

> <span id="v25">25</span> When they came in unto him and said: Peace! he answered, Peace! (and thought): Folk unknown (to me).

> <span id="v26">26</span> Then he went apart unto his housefolk so that they brought a fatted calf;

> <span id="v27">27</span> And he set it before them, saying: Will you not eat ?

> <span id="v28">28</span> Then he conceived a fear of them. They said: Fear not! and gave him tidings of (the birth of) a wise son.

> <span id="v29">29</span> Then his wife came forward, making moan, and smote her face, and cried: A barren old woman!

> <span id="v30">30</span> They said: Even so said your Lord. See! He is the Wise, the Knower.

> <span id="v31">31</span> (Abraham) said: And (afterward) what is your errand, O you sent (from Allah) ?

> <span id="v32">32</span> They said: See! we are sent unto a guilty folk,

> <span id="v33">33</span> That we may send upon them stones of clay,

> <span id="v34">34</span> Marked by your Lord for (the destruction of) the wanton.

> <span id="v35">35</span> Then we brought forth such believers as were there.

> <span id="v36">36</span> But We found there but one house of those surrendered (to Allah).

> <span id="v37">37</span> And We left behind therein a portent for those who fear a painful doom.

> <span id="v38">38</span> And in Moses (too, there is a portent) when We sent him unto Pharaoh with clear warrant,

> <span id="v39">39</span> But he withdrew (confiding) in his might, and said: A wizard or a madman.

> <span id="v40">40</span> So We seized him and his hosts and flung them in the sea, for he was reprobate.

> <span id="v41">41</span> And in (the tribe of) A'ad (there is a portent) when we sent the fatal wind against them.

> <span id="v42">42</span> It spared nothing that it reached, but made it (all) as dust.

> <span id="v43">43</span> And in (the tribe of) Thamud (there is a portent) when it was told them: Take your ease awhile.

> <span id="v44">44</span> But they rebelled against their Lord's decree, and so the thunderbolt overtook them even while they gazed;

> <span id="v45">45</span> And they were unable to rise up, nor could they help themselves.

> <span id="v46">46</span> And the folk of Noah aforetime. See! they were licentious folk.

> <span id="v47">47</span> We have built the heaven with might, and We it is Who make the vast extent (thereof).

> <span id="v48">48</span> And the earth have We laid out, how gracious is the Spreader (thereof)!

> <span id="v49">49</span> And all things We have created by pairs, that haply you may reflect.

> <span id="v50">50</span> Therefor flee unto Allah; see! I am a plain warner unto you from him.

> <span id="v51">51</span> And set not any other god along with Allah; see! I am a plain warner unto you from Him.

> <span id="v52">52</span> Even so there came no messenger unto those before them but they said: A wizard or a madman!

> <span id="v53">53</span> Have they handed down (the saying) as an heirloom one unto another ? No, but they are froward folk.

> <span id="v54">54</span> So withdraw from them (O Muhammad), for you art in no wise blameworthy,

> <span id="v55">55</span> And warn, for warning profiteth believers.

> <span id="v56">56</span> I created the jinn and humankind only that they might worship Me.

> <span id="v57">57</span> I seek no livelihood from them, nor do I ask that they should feed Me.

> <span id="v58">58</span> See! Allah! He it is that giveth livelihood, the Lord of unbreakable might.

> <span id="v59">59</span> And see! for those who (now) do wrong there is an evil day like unto the evil day (which came for) their likes (of old); so let them not ask Me to hasten on (that day).

> <span id="v60">60</span> And woe unto those who disbelieve, from (that) their day which they are promised.
