---
layout: surah
title: Surah 52
search: true
permalink: /quran/52/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> By the Mount,

> <span id="v2">2</span> And a Scripture inscribed

> <span id="v3">3</span> On fine parchment unrolled,

> <span id="v4">4</span> And the House frequented,

> <span id="v5">5</span> And the roof exalted,

> <span id="v6">6</span> And the sea kept filled,

> <span id="v7">7</span> See! the doom of your Lord will surely come to pass;

> <span id="v8">8</span> There is none that can ward it off.

> <span id="v9">9</span> On the day when the heaven will heave with (awful) heaving,

> <span id="v10">10</span> And the mountains move away with (awful) movement,

> <span id="v11">11</span> Then woe that day unto the deniers

> <span id="v12">12</span> Who play in talk of grave matters;

> <span id="v13">13</span> The day when they are thrust with a (disdainful) thrust, into the fire of hell

> <span id="v14">14</span> (And it is said unto them): This is the Fire which you were wont to deny.

> <span id="v15">15</span> Is this magic, or do you not see ?

> <span id="v16">16</span> Endure the heat thereof, and whether you are patient of it or impatient of it is all one for you. Ye are only being paid for what you used to do.

> <span id="v17">17</span> See! those who kept their duty dwell in gardens and delight,

> <span id="v18">18</span> Happy because of what their Lord has given them, and (because) their Lord has warded off from them the torment of hell-fire.

> <span id="v19">19</span> (And it is said unto them): Eat and drink in health (as a reward) for what you used to do,

> <span id="v20">20</span> Reclining on ranged couches. And we wed them unto fair ones with wide, lovely eyes.

> <span id="v21">21</span> And they who believe and whose seed follow them in faith, We cause their seed to join them (there), and We deprive them of nought of their (life's) work. Every man is a pledge for that which he has earned.

> <span id="v22">22</span> And We provide them with fruit and meat such as they desire.

> <span id="v23">23</span> There they pass from hand to hand a cup wherein is neither vanity nor cause of sin.

> <span id="v24">24</span> And there go round, waiting on them menservants of their own, as they were hidden pearls.

> <span id="v25">25</span> And some of them draw near unto others, questioning,

> <span id="v26">26</span> Saying: See! of old, when we were with our families, we were ever anxious;

> <span id="v27">27</span> But Allah has been gracious unto us and has preserved us from the torment of the breath of Fire.

> <span id="v28">28</span> See! we used to pray unto Him of old. See! He is the Benign, the Merciful.

> <span id="v29">29</span> Therefor warn (men, O Muhammad). By the grace of Allah you art neither soothsayer nor madman.

> <span id="v30">30</span> Or say they: (he is) a poet, (one) for whom we may expect the accident of time ?

> <span id="v31">31</span> Say (unto them): Except (your fill)! See! I am with you among the expectant.

> <span id="v32">32</span> Do their minds command them to do this, or are they an outrageous folk ?

> <span id="v33">33</span> Or say they: He has invented it ? No, but they will not believe!

> <span id="v34">34</span> Then let them produce speech the like thereof, if they are truthful.

> <span id="v35">35</span> Or were they created out of nothing ? Or are they the creators ?

> <span id="v36">36</span> Or did they create the heavens and the earth ? No, but they are sure of nothing!

> <span id="v37">37</span> Or do they own the treasures of your Lord ? Or have they been given charge (thereof) ?

> <span id="v38">38</span> Or have they any stairway (unto heaven) by means of which they overhear (decrees). Then let their listener produce some warrant manifest!

> <span id="v39">39</span> Or has He daughters whereas you have sons ?

> <span id="v40">40</span> Or askest you (Muhammad) a fee from them so that they are plunged in debt ?

> <span id="v41">41</span> Or possess they the Unseen so that they can write (it) down ?

> <span id="v42">42</span> Or seek they to ensnare (the messenger) ? But those who disbelieve, they are the ensnared!

> <span id="v43">43</span> Or have they any god beside Allah ? Glorified be Allah from all that they ascribe as partner (unto Him)!

> <span id="v44">44</span> And if they were to see a fragment of the heaven falling, they would say: A heap of clouds.

> <span id="v45">45</span> Then let them be (O Muhammad), till they meet their day, in which they will be thunder-stricken,

> <span id="v46">46</span> A day in which their guile will nothing avail them, nor will they be helped.

> <span id="v47">47</span> And verily, for those who do wrong, there is a punishment beyond that. But most of them know not.

> <span id="v48">48</span> So wait patiently (O Muhammad) for your Lord's decree, for surely you art in Our sight; and hymn the praise of your Lord when you uprisest,

> <span id="v49">49</span> And in the night-time also hymn His praise, and at the setting of the stars.
