---
layout: surah
title: Surah 53
search: true
permalink: /quran/53/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> By the Star when it setteth,

> <span id="v2">2</span> Your comrade erreth not, nor is deceived;

> <span id="v3">3</span> Nor doth he speak of (his own) desire.

> <span id="v4">4</span> It is naught save an inspiration that is inspired,

> <span id="v5">5</span> Which one of mighty powers has taught him,

> <span id="v6">6</span> One vigorous; and he grew clear to view

> <span id="v7">7</span> When he was on the uppermost horizon.

> <span id="v8">8</span> Then he drew nigh and came down

> <span id="v9">9</span> Till he was (distant) two bows' length or even nearer,

> <span id="v10">10</span> And He revealed unto His slave that which He revealed.

> <span id="v11">11</span> The heart lied not (in seeing) what it saw.

> <span id="v12">12</span> Will you then dispute with him concerning what he seeth ?

> <span id="v13">13</span> And verily he saw him yet another time

> <span id="v14">14</span> By the lote-tree of the utmost boundary,

> <span id="v15">15</span> Nigh unto which is the Garden of Abode.

> <span id="v16">16</span> When that which shroudeth did enshroud the lote-tree,

> <span id="v17">17</span> The eye turned not aside nor yet was overbold.

> <span id="v18">18</span> Verily he saw one of the greater revelations of his Lord.

> <span id="v19">19</span> Have you thought upon Al-Lat and Al-'Uzza

> <span id="v20">20</span> And Manat, the third, the other ?

> <span id="v21">21</span> Are yours the males and His the females ?

> <span id="v22">22</span> That indeed were an unfair division!

> <span id="v23">23</span> They are but names which you have named, you and your fathers, for which Allah has revealed no warrant. They follow but a guess and that which (they) themselves desire. And now the guidance from their Lord has come unto them.

> <span id="v24">24</span> Or shall man have what he coveteth ?

> <span id="v25">25</span> But unto Allah belongeth the after (life), and the former.

> <span id="v26">26</span> And how many angels are in the heavens whose intercession availeth naught save after Allah giveth leave to whom He chooseth and accepteth.

> <span id="v27">27</span> See! it is those who disbelieve in the Hereafter who name the angels with the names of females.

> <span id="v28">28</span> And they have no knowledge thereof. They follow but a guess, and see! a guess can never take the place of the truth.

> <span id="v29">29</span> Then withdraw (O Muhammad) from him who fleeth from Our remembrance and desireth but the life of the world.

> <span id="v30">30</span> Such is their sum of knowledge. See! your Lord is Best Aware of him who strayeth, and He is Best Aware of him whom goeth right.

> <span id="v31">31</span> And unto Allah belongeth whatsoever is in the heavens and whatsoever is in the earth, that He may reward those who do evil with that which they have done, and reward those who do good with goodness.

> <span id="v32">32</span> Those who avoid enormities of sin and abominations, save the unwilled offences - (for them) see! your Lord is of vast mercy. He is Best Aware of you (from the time) when He created you from the earth, and when you were hidden in the bellies of your mothers. Therefor ascribe not purity unto yourselves. He is Best Aware of him who wardeth off (evil).

> <span id="v33">33</span> Didst you (O Muhammad) observe him who turned away,

> <span id="v34">34</span> And gave a little, then was grudging ?

> <span id="v35">35</span> Hath he knowledge of the Unseen so that he seeth ?

> <span id="v36">36</span> Or has he not had news of what is in the books of Moses

> <span id="v37">37</span> And Abraham who paid his debt:

> <span id="v38">38</span> That no laden one shall bear another's load,

> <span id="v39">39</span> And that man has only that for which he maketh effort,

> <span id="v40">40</span> And that his effort will be seen.

> <span id="v41">41</span> And afterward he will be repaid for it with fullest payment;

> <span id="v42">42</span> And that your Lord, He is the goal;

> <span id="v43">43</span> And that He it is who maketh laugh, and maketh weep,

> <span id="v44">44</span> And that He it is Who giveth death and giveth life;

> <span id="v45">45</span> And that He createth the two spouses, the male and the female,

> <span id="v46">46</span> From a drop (of seed) when it is poured forth;

> <span id="v47">47</span> And that He has ordained the second bringing forth;

> <span id="v48">48</span> And that He it is Who enricheth and contenteth;

> <span id="v49">49</span> And that He it is Who is the Lord of Sirius;

> <span id="v50">50</span> And that He destroyed the former (tribe of) A'ad,

> <span id="v51">51</span> And (the tribe of) Thamud He spared not;

> <span id="v52">52</span> And the folk of Noah aforetime, See! they were more unjust and more rebellious;

> <span id="v53">53</span> And Al-Mu'tafikah He destroyed

> <span id="v54">54</span> So that there covered them that which did cover.

> <span id="v55">55</span> Concerning which then, of the bounties of your Lord, canst you dispute ?

> <span id="v56">56</span> This is a warner of the warners of old.

> <span id="v57">57</span> The threatened Hour is nigh.

> <span id="v58">58</span> None beside Allah can disclose it.

> <span id="v59">59</span> Marvel you then at this statement,

> <span id="v60">60</span> And laugh and not weep,

> <span id="v61">61</span> While you amuse yourselves ?

> <span id="v62">62</span> Rather prostrate yourselves before Allah and serve Him.
