---
layout: surah
title: Surah 54
search: true
permalink: /quran/54/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> The hour drew nigh and the moon was rent in twain.

> <span id="v2">2</span> And if they behold a portent they turn away and say: Prolonged illusion.

> <span id="v3">3</span> They denied (the Truth) and followed their own lusts. Yet everything will come to a decision

> <span id="v4">4</span> And surely there hath come unto them news whereof the purport should deter,

> <span id="v5">5</span> Effective wisdom; but warnings avail not.

> <span id="v6">6</span> So withdraw from them (O Muhammad) on the day when the Summoner summoneth unto a painful thing.

> <span id="v7">7</span> With downcast eyes, they come forth from the graves as they were locusts spread abroad,

> <span id="v8">8</span> Hastening toward the summoner; the disbelievers say: This is a hard day.

> <span id="v9">9</span> The folk of Noah denied before them, yea, they denied Our slave and said: A madman; and he was repulsed.

> <span id="v10">10</span> So he cried unto his Lord, saying: I am vanquished, so give help.

> <span id="v11">11</span> Then opened We the gates of heaven with pouring water

> <span id="v12">12</span> And caused the earth to gush forth springs, so that the waters met for a predestined purpose.

> <span id="v13">13</span> And We carried him upon a thing of planks and nails,

> <span id="v14">14</span> That ran (upon the waters) in Our sight, as a reward for him who was rejected.

> <span id="v15">15</span> And verily We left it as a token; but is there any that remembereth ?

> <span id="v16">16</span> Then see how (dreadful) was My punishment after My warnings!

> <span id="v17">17</span> And in truth We have made the Qur'an easy to remember; but is there any that remembereth ?

> <span id="v18">18</span> (The tribe of) A'ad rejected warnings. Then how (dreadful) was My punishment after My warnings.

> <span id="v19">19</span> Lo! We let loose on them a raging wind on a day of constant calamity,

> <span id="v20">20</span> Sweeping men away as though they were uprooted trunks of palm-trees.

> <span id="v21">21</span> Then see how (dreadful) was My punishment after My warnings!

> <span id="v22">22</span> And in truth We have made the Qur'an easy to remember; but is there any that remembereth ?

> <span id="v23">23</span> (The tribe of) Thamud rejected warnings

> <span id="v24">24</span> For they said; Is it a mortal man, alone among us, that we are to follow ? Then indeed we should fall into error and madness.

> <span id="v25">25</span> Hath the remembrance been given unto him alone among us ? Nay, but he is a rash liar.

> <span id="v26">26</span> (Unto their warner it was said): To-morrow they will know who is the rash liar.

> <span id="v27">27</span> Lo! We are sending the she-camel as a test for them; so watch them and have patience;

> <span id="v28">28</span> And inform them that the water is to be shared between (her and) them. Every drinking will be witnessed.

> <span id="v29">29</span> But they call their comrade and he took and hamstrung (her).

> <span id="v30">30</span> Then see how (dreadful) was My punishment after My warnings!

> <span id="v31">31</span> Lo! We sent upon them one Shout, and they became as the dry twigs (rejected by) the builder of a cattle-fold.

> <span id="v32">32</span> And in truth We have made the Qur'an easy to remember; but is there any that remembereth ?

> <span id="v33">33</span> The folk of Lot rejected warnings.

> <span id="v34">34</span> Lo! We sent a storm of stones upon them (all) save the family of Lot, whom We rescued in the last watch of the night,

> <span id="v35">35</span> As grace from Us. Thus We reward him who giveth thanks.

> <span id="v36">36</span> And he indeed had warned them of Our blow, but they did doubt the warnings.

> <span id="v37">37</span> They even asked of him his guests for an ill purpose. Then We blinded their eyes (and said): Taste now My punishment after My warnings!

> <span id="v38">38</span> And in truth the punishment decreed befell them early in the morning.

> <span id="v39">39</span> Now taste My punishment after My warnings!

> <span id="v40">40</span> And in truth We have made the Qur'an easy to remember; but is there any that remembereth ?

> <span id="v41">41</span> And warnings came in truth unto the house of Pharaoh

> <span id="v42">42</span> Who denied Our revelations, every one. Therefore We grasped them with the grasp of the Mighty, the Powerful.

> <span id="v43">43</span> Are your disbelievers better than those, or have ye some immunity in the scriptures ?

> <span id="v44">44</span> Or say they: We are a host victorious ?

> <span id="v45">45</span> The hosts will all be routed and will turn and flee.

> <span id="v46">46</span> Nay, but the Hour (of doom) is their appointed tryst, and the Hour will be more wretched and more bitter (than their earthly failure).

> <span id="v47">47</span> Lo! the guilty are in error and madness.

> <span id="v48">48</span> On the day when they are dragged into the Fire upon their faces (it is said unto them): Feel the touch of hell.

> <span id="v49">49</span> Lo! We have created every thing by measure.

> <span id="v50">50</span> And Our commandment is but one (commandment), as the twinkling of an eye.

> <span id="v51">51</span> And verily We have destroyed your fellows; but is there any that remembereth ?

> <span id="v52">52</span> And every thing they did is in the scriptures,

> <span id="v53">53</span> And every small and great thing is recorded.

> <span id="v54">54</span> Lo! the righteous will dwell among gardens and rivers,

> <span id="v55">55</span> Firmly established in the favour of a Mighty King.
