---
layout: surah
title: Surah 55
search: true
permalink: /quran/55/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> The Beneficent

> <span id="v2">2</span> Hath made known the Qur'an.

> <span id="v3">3</span> He hath created man.

> <span id="v4">4</span> He hath taught him utterance.

> <span id="v5">5</span> The sun and the moon are made punctual.

> <span id="v6">6</span> The stars and the trees adore.

> <span id="v7">7</span> And the sky He hath uplifted; and He hath set the measure,

> <span id="v8">8</span> That you exceed not the measure,

> <span id="v9">9</span> But observe the measure strictly, nor fall short thereof.

> <span id="v10">10</span> And the earth hath He appointed for (His) creatures,

> <span id="v11">11</span> Wherein are fruit and sheathed palm-trees,

> <span id="v12">12</span> Husked grain and scented herb.

> <span id="v13">13</span> Which is it, of the favours of your Lord, that you deny ?

> <span id="v14">14</span> He created man of clay like the potter's,

> <span id="v15">15</span> And the jinn did He create of smokeless fire.

> <span id="v16">16</span> Which is it, of the favours of your Lord, that you deny ?

> <span id="v17">17</span> Lord of the two Easts, and Lord of the two Wests!

> <span id="v18">18</span> Which is it, of the favours of your Lord, that you deny ?

> <span id="v19">19</span> He hath loosed the two seas. They meet.

> <span id="v20">20</span> There is a barrier between them. They encroach not (one upon the other).

> <span id="v21">21</span> Which is it, of the favours of your Lord, that you deny ?

> <span id="v22">22</span> There cometh forth from both of them the pearl and coral-stone.

> <span id="v23">23</span> Which is it, of the favours of your Lord, that you deny ?

> <span id="v24">24</span> His are the ships displayed upon the sea, like banners.

> <span id="v25">25</span> Which is it, of the favours of your Lord, that you deny ?

> <span id="v26">26</span> Everyone that is thereon will pass away;

> <span id="v27">27</span> There remaineth but the Countenance of your Lord of Might and Glory.

> <span id="v28">28</span> Which is it, of the favours of your Lord, that you deny ?

> <span id="v29">29</span> All that are in the heavens and the earth entreat Him. Every day He exerciseth (universal) power.

> <span id="v30">30</span> Which is it, of the favours of your Lord, that you deny ?

> <span id="v31">31</span> We shall dispose of you, O you two dependents (man and jinn).

> <span id="v32">32</span> Which is it, of the favours of your Lord, that you deny ?

> <span id="v33">33</span> O company of jinn and men, if you have power to penetrate (all) regions of the heavens and the earth, then penetrate (them)! Ye will never penetrate them save with (Our) sanction.

> <span id="v34">34</span> Which is it, of the favours of your Lord, that you deny ?

> <span id="v35">35</span> There will be sent, against you both, heat of fire and flash of brass, and you will not escape.

> <span id="v36">36</span> Which is it, of the favours of your Lord, that you deny ?

> <span id="v37">37</span> And when the heaven splitteth asunder and becometh rosy like red hide -

> <span id="v38">38</span> Which is it, of the favours of your Lord, that you deny ? -

> <span id="v39">39</span> On that day neither man nor jinni will be questioned of his sin.

> <span id="v40">40</span> Which is it, of the favours of your Lord, that you deny ?

> <span id="v41">41</span> The guilty will be known by their marks, and will be taken by the forelocks and the feet.

> <span id="v42">42</span> Which is it, of the favours of your Lord, that you deny ?

> <span id="v43">43</span> This is hell which the guilty deny.

> <span id="v44">44</span> They go circling round between it and fierce, boiling water.

> <span id="v45">45</span> Which is it, of the favours of your Lord, that you deny ?

> <span id="v46">46</span> But for him who feareth the standing before his Lord there are two gardens.

> <span id="v47">47</span> Which is it, of the favours of your Lord, that you deny ?

> <span id="v48">48</span> Of spreading branches.

> <span id="v49">49</span> Which is it, of the favours of your Lord, that you deny ?

> <span id="v50">50</span> Wherein are two fountains flowing.

> <span id="v51">51</span> Which is it, of the favours of your Lord, that you deny ?

> <span id="v52">52</span> Wherein is every kind of fruit in pairs.

> <span id="v53">53</span> Which is it, of the favours of your Lord, that you deny ?

> <span id="v54">54</span> Reclining upon couches lined with silk brocade, the fruit of both the gardens near to hand.

> <span id="v55">55</span> Which is it, of the favours of your Lord, that you deny ?

> <span id="v56">56</span> Therein are those of modest gaze, whom neither man nor jinni will have touched before them.

> <span id="v57">57</span> Which is it, of the favours of your Lord, that you deny ?

> <span id="v58">58</span> (In beauty) like the jacynth and the coral-stone.

> <span id="v59">59</span> Which is it, of the favours of your Lord, that you deny ?

> <span id="v60">60</span> Is the reward of goodness aught save goodness ?

> <span id="v61">61</span> Which is it, of the favours of your Lord, that you deny ?

> <span id="v62">62</span> And beside them are two other gardens,

> <span id="v63">63</span> Which is it, of the favours of your Lord, that you deny ?

> <span id="v64">64</span> Dark green with foliage.

> <span id="v65">65</span> Which is it, of the favours of your Lord, that you deny ?

> <span id="v66">66</span> Wherein are two abundant springs.

> <span id="v67">67</span> Which is it, of the favours of your Lord, that you deny ?

> <span id="v68">68</span> Wherein is fruit, the date-palm and pomegranate.

> <span id="v69">69</span> Which is it, of the favours of your Lord, that you deny ?

> <span id="v70">70</span> Wherein (are found) the good and beautiful -

> <span id="v71">71</span> Which is it, of the favours of your Lord, that you deny ? -

> <span id="v72">72</span> Fair ones, close-guarded in pavilions -

> <span id="v73">73</span> Which is it, of the favours of your Lord, that you deny ? -

> <span id="v74">74</span> Whom neither man nor jinni will have touched before them -

> <span id="v75">75</span> Which is it, of the favours of your Lord, that you deny ?

> <span id="v76">76</span> Reclining on green cushions and fair carpets.

> <span id="v77">77</span> Which is it, of the favours of your Lord, that you deny ?

> <span id="v78">78</span> Blessed be the name of your Lord, Mighty and glorious!
