---
layout: surah
title: Surah 56
search: true
permalink: /quran/56/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> When the event befalleth -

> <span id="v2">2</span> There is no denying that it will befall -

> <span id="v3">3</span> Abasing (some), exalting (others);

> <span id="v4">4</span> When the earth is shaken with a shock

> <span id="v5">5</span> And the hills are ground to powder

> <span id="v6">6</span> So that they become a scattered dust,

> <span id="v7">7</span> And you will be three kinds:

> <span id="v8">8</span> (First) those on the right hand; what of those on the right hand ?

> <span id="v9">9</span> And (then) those on the left hand; what of those on the left hand ?

> <span id="v10">10</span> And the foremost in the race, the foremost in the race:

> <span id="v11">11</span> Those are they who will be brought nigh

> <span id="v12">12</span> In gardens of delight;

> <span id="v13">13</span> A multitude of those of old

> <span id="v14">14</span> And a few of those of later time.

> <span id="v15">15</span> On lined couches,

> <span id="v16">16</span> Reclining therein face to face.

> <span id="v17">17</span> There wait on them immortal youths

> <span id="v18">18</span> With bowls and ewers and a cup from a pure spring

> <span id="v19">19</span> Wherefrom they get no aching of the head nor any madness,

> <span id="v20">20</span> And fruit that they prefer

> <span id="v21">21</span> And flesh of fowls that they desire.

> <span id="v22">22</span> And (there are) fair ones with wide, lovely eyes,

> <span id="v23">23</span> Like to hidden pearls,

> <span id="v24">24</span> Reward for what they used to do.

> <span id="v25">25</span> There hear they no vain speaking nor recrimination

> <span id="v26">26</span> (Naught) but the saying: Peace, (and again) Peace.

> <span id="v27">27</span> And those on the right hand; what of those on the right hand ?

> <span id="v28">28</span> Among thornless lote-trees

> <span id="v29">29</span> And clustered plantains,

> <span id="v30">30</span> And spreading shade,

> <span id="v31">31</span> And water gushing,

> <span id="v32">32</span> And fruit in plenty

> <span id="v33">33</span> Neither out of reach nor yet forbidden,

> <span id="v34">34</span> And raised couches;

> <span id="v35">35</span> See! We have created them a (new) creation

> <span id="v36">36</span> And made them virgins,

> <span id="v37">37</span> Lovers, friends,

> <span id="v38">38</span> For those on the right hand;

> <span id="v39">39</span> A multitude of those of old

> <span id="v40">40</span> And a multitude of those of later time.

> <span id="v41">41</span> And those on the left hand: What of those on the left hand ?

> <span id="v42">42</span> In scorching wind and scalding water

> <span id="v43">43</span> And shadow of black smoke,

> <span id="v44">44</span> Neither cool nor refreshing.

> <span id="v45">45</span> See! heretofore they were effete with luxury

> <span id="v46">46</span> And used to persist in the awful sin.

> <span id="v47">47</span> And they used to say: When we are dead and have become dust and bones, shall we then, forsooth, be raised again,

> <span id="v48">48</span> And also our forefathers ?

> <span id="v49">49</span> Say (unto them, O Muhammad): See! those of old and those of later time

> <span id="v50">50</span> Will all be brought together to the tryst of an appointed day.

> <span id="v51">51</span> Then see! ye, the erring, the deniers,

> <span id="v52">52</span> Ye verily will eat of a tree called Zaqqum

> <span id="v53">53</span> And will fill your bellies therewith;

> <span id="v54">54</span> And thereon you will drink of boiling water,

> <span id="v55">55</span> Drinking even as the camel drinketh.

> <span id="v56">56</span> This will be their welcome on the Day of Judgment.

> <span id="v57">57</span> We created you. Will you then admit the truth ?

> <span id="v58">58</span> Have you seen that which you emit ?

> <span id="v59">59</span> Do you create it or are We the Creator ?

> <span id="v60">60</span> We mete out death among you, and We are not to be outrun,

> <span id="v61">61</span> That We may transfigure you and make you what you know not.

> <span id="v62">62</span> And verily you know the first creation. Why, then, do you not reflect ?

> <span id="v63">63</span> Have you seen that which you cultivate ?

> <span id="v64">64</span> Is it you who foster it, or are We the Fosterer ?

> <span id="v65">65</span> If We willed, We verily could make it chaff, then would you cease not to exclaim:

> <span id="v66">66</span> See! we are laden with debt!

> <span id="v67">67</span> No, but we are deprived!

> <span id="v68">68</span> Have you observed the water which you drink ?

> <span id="v69">69</span> Is it you who shed it from the raincloud, or are We the Shedder ?

> <span id="v70">70</span> If We willed We verily could make it bitter. Why then, give you not thanks ?

> <span id="v71">71</span> Have you observed the fire which you strike out;

> <span id="v72">72</span> Was it you who made the tree thereof to grow, or were We the grower ?

> <span id="v73">73</span> We, even We, appointed it a memorial and a comfort for the dwellers in the wilderness.

> <span id="v74">74</span> Therefore (O Muhammad), praise the name of your Lord, the Tremendous.

> <span id="v75">75</span> No, I swear by the places of the stars -

> <span id="v76">76</span> And see! that verily is a tremendous oath, if you but knew -

> <span id="v77">77</span> That (this) is indeed a noble Qur'an

> <span id="v78">78</span> In a Book kept hidden

> <span id="v79">79</span> Which none toucheth save the purified,

> <span id="v80">80</span> A revelation from the Lord of the Worlds.

> <span id="v81">81</span> Is it this Statement that you scorn,

> <span id="v82">82</span> And make denial thereof your livelihood ?

> <span id="v83">83</span> Why, then, when (the soul) cometh up to the throat (of the dying)

> <span id="v84">84</span> And you are at that moment looking

> <span id="v85">85</span> - And We are nearer to him than you are, but you see not -

> <span id="v86">86</span> Why then, if you are not in bondage (unto Us),

> <span id="v87">87</span> Do you not force it back, if you are truthful ?

> <span id="v88">88</span> Thus if he is of those brought nigh,

> <span id="v89">89</span> Then breath of life, and plenty, and a Garden of delight.

> <span id="v90">90</span> And if he is of those on the right hand,

> <span id="v91">91</span> Then (the greeting) "Peace be to you" from those on the right hand.

> <span id="v92">92</span> But if he is of the rejecters, the erring,

> <span id="v93">93</span> Then the welcome will be boiling water

> <span id="v94">94</span> And roasting at hell-fire.

> <span id="v95">95</span> See! this is certain truth.

> <span id="v96">96</span> Therefore (O Muhammad) praise the name of your Lord, the Tremendous.
