---
layout: surah
title: Surah 60
search: true
permalink: /quran/60/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> O you who believe! Choose not My enemy and your enemy for allies. Do you give them friendship when they disbelieve in that truth which has come unto you, driving out the messenger and you because you believe in Allah, your Lord ? If you have come forth to strive in My way and seeking My good pleasure, (show them not friendship). Do you show friendship unto them in secret, when I am Best Aware of what you hide and what you proclaim ? And whosoever does it among you, he verily has strayed from the right way.

> <span id="v2">2</span> If they have the upper hand of you, they will be your foes, and will stretch out their hands and their tongues toward you with evil (intent), and they long for you to disbelieve.

> <span id="v3">3</span> Your ties of kindred and your children will avail you naught upon the Day of Resurrection. He will part you. Allah is Seer of what you do.

> <span id="v4">4</span> There is a goodly pattern for you in Abraham and those with him, when they told their folk: See! we are guiltless of you and all that you worship beside Allah. We have done with you. And there has arisen between us and you hostility and hate for ever until you believe in Allah only - save that which Abraham promised his father (when he said): I will ask forgiveness for thee, though I own nothing for you from Allah - Our Lord! In you we put our trust, and unto you we turn repentant, and unto you is the journeying.

> <span id="v5">5</span> Our Lord! Make us not a prey for those who disbelieve, and forgive us, our Lord! See! Thou, only Thou, are the Mighty, the Wise.

> <span id="v6">6</span> Verily you have in them a goodly pattern for everyone who looketh to Allah and the Last Day. And whosoever may turn away, see! still Allah, He is the Absolute, the Owner of Praise.

> <span id="v7">7</span> It may be that Allah will ordain love between you and those of them with whom you are at enmity. Allah is Mighty, and Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v8">8</span> Allah forbiddeth you not those who warred not against you on account of religion and drove you not out from your homes, that you should show them kindness and deal justly with them. See! Allah loveth the just dealers.

> <span id="v9">9</span> Allah forbiddeth you only those who warred against you on account of religion and have driven you out from your homes and helped to drive you out, that you make friends of them. Whosoever maketh friends of them - (All) such are wrong- doers.

> <span id="v10">10</span> O you who believe! When believing women come unto you as fugitives, examine them. Allah is Best Aware of their faith. Then, if you know them for true believers, send them not back unto the disbelievers. They are not lawful for them (the disbelievers), nor are they (the disbelievers) lawful for them. And give them (the disbelievers) that which they have spent (upon them). And it is no sin for you to marry such women when you have given them their dues. And hold not to the ties of disbelieving women; and ask for (the return of) that which you have spent; and let them (the disbelievers) ask for that which they have spent. That is the judgment of Allah. He judgeth between you. Allah is Knower, Wise.

> <span id="v11">11</span> And if any of your wives have gone from you unto the disbelievers and afterward you have your turn (of triumph), then give unto those whose wives have gone the like of that which they have spent, and keep your duty to Allah in Whom you are believers.

> <span id="v12">12</span> O Prophet! If believing women come unto thee, taking oath of allegiance unto you that they will ascribe no thing as partner unto Allah, and will neither steal nor commit adultery nor kill their children, nor produce any lie that they have devised between their hands and feet, nor disobey you in what is right, then accept their allegiance and ask Allah to forgive them. See! Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v13">13</span> O you who believe! Be not friendly with a folk with whom Allah is wroth, (a folk) who have despaired of the Hereafter as the disbelievers despair of those who are in the graves.
