---
layout: surah
title: Surah 62
search: true
permalink: /quran/62/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> All that is in the heavens and all that is in the earth glorifieth Allah, the Sovereign Lord, the Holy One, the Mighty, the Wise.

> <span id="v2">2</span> He it is Who has sent among the unlettered ones a messenger of their own, to recite to them His revelations and to make them grow, and to teach them the Scripture and wisdom, though heretofore they were indeed in error manifest,

> <span id="v3">3</span> Along with others of them who have not yet joined them. He is the Mighty, the Wise.

> <span id="v4">4</span> That is the bounty of Allah; which He gives to whom He will. Allah is of Infinite Bounty.

> <span id="v5">5</span> The likeness of those who are entrusted with the Law of Moses, yet apply it not, is as the likeness of the ass carrying books. Wretched is the likeness of folk who deny the revelations of Allah. And Allah guideth not wrongdoing folk.

> <span id="v6">6</span> Say (O Muhammad): O you who are Jews! If you claim that you are favoured of Allah apart from (all) mankind, then long for death if you are truthful.

> <span id="v7">7</span> But they will never long for it because of all that their own hands have sent before, and Allah is Aware of evil-doers.

> <span id="v8">8</span> Say (unto them, O Muhammad): See! the death from which you shrink will surely meet you, and afterward you will be returned to the Knower of the Invisible and the Visible, and He will tell you what you used to do.

> <span id="v9">9</span> O you who believe! When the call is heard for the prayer of the day of congregation, haste to remembrance of Allah and leave your trading. That is better for you if you did but know.

> <span id="v10">10</span> And when the prayer is ended, then disperse in the land and seek of Allah's bounty, and remember Allah much, that you may be successful.

> <span id="v11">11</span> But when they spy some merchandise or pastime they break away to it and leave you standing. Say: That which Allah has is better than pastime and than merchandise, and Allah is the Best of providers.
