---
layout: surah
title: Surah 63
search: true
permalink: /quran/63/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> When the hypocrites come to you (O Muhammad), they say: We bear witness that you art indeed Allah's messenger. And Allah knows that you art indeed His messenger, and Allah beareth witness that the hypocrites indeed are speaking falsely.

> <span id="v2">2</span> They make their faith a pretext so that they may turn (men) from the way of Allah. Verily evil is that which they are wont to do,

> <span id="v3">3</span> That is because they believed, then disbelieved, therefore their hearts are sealed so that they understand not.

> <span id="v4">4</span> And when you seest them their figures please thee; and if they speak you givest ear to their speech. (They are) as though they were blocks of wood in striped cloaks. They deem every shout to be against them. They are the enemy, so beware of them. Allah confound them! How they are perverted!

> <span id="v5">5</span> And when it is said to them: Come! The messenger of Allah will ask forgiveness for you! they avert their faces and you seest them turning away, disdainful.

> <span id="v6">6</span> Whether you ask forgiveness for them or ask not forgiveness for them is all one for them; Allah will not forgive them. See! Allah guideth not the evil-living folk.

> <span id="v7">7</span> They it is who say: Spend not on behalf of those (who dwell) with Allah's messenger that they may disperse (and go away from you); when Allah's are the treasures of the heavens and the earth; but the hypocrites comprehend not.

> <span id="v8">8</span> They say: Surely, if we return to Al-Madinah the mightier will soon drive out the weaker; when might belongeth to Allah and to His messenger and to the believers; but the hypocrites know not.

> <span id="v9">9</span> O you who believe! Let not your wealth nor your children distract you from remembrance of Allah. Those who do so, they are the losers.

> <span id="v10">10</span> And spend of that wherewith We have provided you before death cometh to one of you and he said: My Lord! If only you wouldst reprieve me for a little while, then I would give alms and be among the righteous.

> <span id="v11">11</span> But Allah reprieveth no soul when its term cometh, and Allah is Informed of what you do.
