---
layout: surah
title: Surah 64
search: true
permalink: /quran/64/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> All that is in the heavens and all that is in the earth glorifieth Allah; to Him belongeth Sovereignty and to Him belongeth praise, and He is Able to do all things.

> <span id="v2">2</span> He it is Who created you, but one of you is a disbeliever and one of you is a believer, and Allah is Seer of what you do.

> <span id="v3">3</span> He created the heavens and the earth with truth, and He shaped you and made good your shapes, and to Him is the journeying.

> <span id="v4">4</span> He knows all that is in the heavens and the earth, and He knows what you conceal and what you publish. And Allah is Aware of what is in the breasts (of men).

> <span id="v5">5</span> Hath not the story reached you of those who disbelieved of old and so did taste the ill-effects of their conduct, and theirs will be a painful doom.

> <span id="v6">6</span> That was because their messengers (from Allah) kept coming to them with clear proofs (of Allah's Sovereignty), but they said: Shall mere mortals guide us ? So they disbelieved and turned away, and Allah was independent (of them). Allah is Absolute, Owner of Praise.

> <span id="v7">7</span> Those who disbelieve assert that they will not be raised again. Say (to them, O Muhammad): Yea, verily, by my Lord! you will be raised again and then you will be informed of what you did; and that is easy for Allah.

> <span id="v8">8</span> So believe in Allah and His messenger and the light which We have revealed. And Allah is Informed of what you do.

> <span id="v9">9</span> The day when He shall gather you to the Day of Assembling, that will be a day of mutual disillusion. And whoso believes in Allah and does right, He will remit from him his evil deeds and will bring him to Gardens underneath which rivers flow, therein to abide for ever. That is the supreme triumph.

> <span id="v10">10</span> But those who disbelieve and deny Our revelations, such are owners of the Fire; they will abide therein - a hapless journey's end!

> <span id="v11">11</span> No calamity befalleth save by Allah's leave. And whosoever believes in Allah, He guides his heart. And Allah is Knower of all things.

> <span id="v12">12</span> Obey Allah and obey His messenger; but if you turn away, then the duty of Our messenger is only to convey (the message) plainly.

> <span id="v13">13</span> Allah! There is no God save Him. In Allah, therefore, let believers put their trust.

> <span id="v14">14</span> O you who believe! See! among your wives and your children there are enemies for you, therefore beware of them. And if you efface and overlook and forgive, then see! Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.

> <span id="v15">15</span> Your wealth and your children are only a temptation, whereas Allah! with Him is an immense reward.

> <span id="v16">16</span> So keep your duty to Allah as best you can, and listen, and obey, and spend; that is better for your souls. And whoso is saved from his own greed, such are the successful.

> <span id="v17">17</span> If you lend to Allah a goodly loan, He will double it for you and will forgive you, for Allah is Responsive, Clement,

> <span id="v18">18</span> Knower of the Invisible and the Visible, the Mighty, the Wise.
