---
layout: surah
title: Surah 67
search: true
permalink: /quran/67/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> Blessed is He in Whose hand is the Sovereignty, and, He is Able to do all things.

> <span id="v2">2</span> Who has created life and death that He may try you which of you is best in conduct; and He is the Mighty, the Forgiving,

> <span id="v3">3</span> Who has created seven heavens in harmony. You (Muhammad) canst see no fault in the Beneficent One's creation; then look again: Canst you see any rifts ?

> <span id="v4">4</span> Then look again and yet again, your sight will return unto you weakened and made dim.

> <span id="v5">5</span> And verily We have beautified the world's heaven with lamps, and We have made them missiles for the devils, and for them We have prepared the doom of flame.

> <span id="v6">6</span> And for those who disbelieve in their Lord there is the doom of hell, a hapless journey's end!

> <span id="v7">7</span> When they are flung therein they hear its roaring as it boileth up,

> <span id="v8">8</span> As it would burst with rage. Whenever a (fresh) host is flung therein the wardens thereof ask them: Came there unto you no warner ?

> <span id="v9">9</span> They say: Yea, verily, a warner came unto us; but we denied and said: Allah has naught revealed; you are in naught but a great error.

> <span id="v10">10</span> And they say: Had we been wont to listen or have sense, we had not been among the dwellers in the flames.

> <span id="v11">11</span> So they acknowledge their sins; but far removed (from mercy) are the dwellers in the flames.

> <span id="v12">12</span> See! those who fear their Lord in secret, theirs will be forgiveness and a great reward.

> <span id="v13">13</span> And keep your opinion secret or proclaim it, lo! He is Knower of all that is in the breasts (of men).

> <span id="v14">14</span> Should He not know what He created ? And He is the Subtile, the Aware.

> <span id="v15">15</span> He it is Who has made the earth subservient unto you, so Walk in the paths thereof and eat of His providence. And unto Him will be the resurrection (of the dead).

> <span id="v16">16</span> Have you taken security from Him Who is in the heaven that He will not cause the earth to swallow you when lo! it is convulsed ?

> <span id="v17">17</span> Or have you taken security from Him Who is in the heaven that He will not let loose on you a hurricane ? But you shall know the manner of My warning.

> <span id="v18">18</span> And verily those before them denied, then (see) the manner of My wrath (with them)!

> <span id="v19">19</span> Have they not seen the birds above them spreading out their wings and closing them ? Naught upholdeth them save the Beneficent. See! He is Seer of all things.

> <span id="v20">20</span> Or who is he that will be an army unto you to help you instead of the Beneficent ? The disbelievers are in naught but illusion.

> <span id="v21">21</span> Or who is he that will provide for you if He should withhold His providence ? No, but they are set in pride and frowardness.

> <span id="v22">22</span> Is he who goeth groping on his face more rightly guided, or he who walketh upright on a straight road ?

> <span id="v23">23</span> Say (unto them, O Muhammad): He it is who gave you being, and has assigned unto you ears and eyes and hearts. Small thanks give ye!

> <span id="v24">24</span> Say: He it is Who multiplieth you in the earth, and unto Whom you will be gathered.

> <span id="v25">25</span> And they say: When (will) this promise (be fulfilled), if you are truthful ?

> <span id="v26">26</span> Say: The knowledge is with Allah only, and I am but a plain warner;

> <span id="v27">27</span> But when they see it nigh, the faces of those who disbelieve will be awry, and it will be said (unto them): This is that for which you used to call.

> <span id="v28">28</span> Say (O Muhammad): Have you thought: Whether Allah causeth me (Muhammad) and those with me to perish or has mercy on us, still, who will protect the disbelievers from a painful doom ?

> <span id="v29">29</span> Say: He is the Beneficent. In Him we believe and in Him we put our trust. And you will soon know who it is that is in error manifest.

> <span id="v30">30</span> Say: Have you thought: If (all) your water were to disappear into the earth, who then could bring you gushing water ?
