---
layout: surah
title: Surah 68
search: true
permalink: /quran/68/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> Nun. By the pen and that which they write (therewith),

> <span id="v2">2</span> You are not, for your Lord's favour to thee, a madman.

> <span id="v3">3</span> And see! thine verily will be a reward unfailing.

> <span id="v4">4</span> And see! you are of a tremendous nature.

> <span id="v5">5</span> And you will see and they will see

> <span id="v6">6</span> Which of you is the demented.

> <span id="v7">7</span> See! your Lord is Best Aware of him who strayeth from His way, and He is Best Aware of those who walk aright.

> <span id="v8">8</span> Therefor obey not you the rejecters

> <span id="v9">9</span> Who would have had you compromise, that they may compromise.

> <span id="v10">10</span> Neither obey you each feeble oath-monger,

> <span id="v11">11</span> Detracter, spreader abroad of slanders,

> <span id="v12">12</span> Hinderer of the good, transgressor, malefactor

> <span id="v13">13</span> Greedy therewithal, intrusive.

> <span id="v14">14</span> It is because he is possessed of wealth and children

> <span id="v15">15</span> That, when Our revelations are recited to him, he said: Mere fables of the men of old.

> <span id="v16">16</span> We shall brand him on the nose.

> <span id="v17">17</span> See! We have tried them as We tried the owners of the garden when they vowed that they would pluck its fruit next morning,

> <span id="v18">18</span> And made no exception (for the Will of Allah);

> <span id="v19">19</span> Then a visitation from your Lord came upon it while they slept

> <span id="v20">20</span> And in the morning it was as if plucked.

> <span id="v21">21</span> And they cried out one to another in the morning,

> <span id="v22">22</span> Saying: Run to your field if you would pluck (the fruit).

> <span id="v23">23</span> So they went off, saying one to another in low tones:

> <span id="v24">24</span> No needy man shall enter it to-day against you.

> <span id="v25">25</span> They went betimes, strong in (this) purpose.

> <span id="v26">26</span> But when they saw it, they said: See! we are in error!

> <span id="v27">27</span> No, but we are desolate!

> <span id="v28">28</span> The best among them said: Said I not to you: Why glorify you not (Allah) ?

> <span id="v29">29</span> They said: Glorified be our Lord! See! we have been wrong-doers.

> <span id="v30">30</span> Then some of them drew near to others, self-reproaching.

> <span id="v31">31</span> They said: Alas for us! In truth we were outrageous.

> <span id="v32">32</span> It may be that our Lord will give us better than this in place thereof. See! we beseech our Lord.

> <span id="v33">33</span> Such was the punishment. And verily the punishment of the Hereafter is greater if they did but know.

> <span id="v34">34</span> See! for those who keep from evil are gardens of bliss with their Lord.

> <span id="v35">35</span> Shall We then treat those who have surrendered as We treat the guilty ?

> <span id="v36">36</span> What ails you ? How foolishly you judge!

> <span id="v37">37</span> Or have you a scripture wherein you learn

> <span id="v38">38</span> That you shall indeed have all that you choose ?

> <span id="v39">39</span> Or have you a covenant on oath from Us that reacheth to the Day of Judgment, that yours shall be all that you ordain ?

> <span id="v40">40</span> Ask them (O Muhammad) which of them will vouch for that!

> <span id="v41">41</span> Or have they other gods ? Then let them bring their other gods if they are truthful

> <span id="v42">42</span> On the day when it befalleth in earnest, and they are ordered to prostrate themselves but are not able,

> <span id="v43">43</span> With eyes downcast, abasement stupefying them. And they had been summoned to prostrate themselves while they were yet unhurt.

> <span id="v44">44</span> Leave Me (to deal) with those who give the lie to this pronouncement. We shall lead them on by steps from whence they know not.

> <span id="v45">45</span> Yet I bear with them, for see! My scheme is firm.

> <span id="v46">46</span> Or dost you (Muhammad) ask a fee from them so that they are heavily taxed ?

> <span id="v47">47</span> Or is the Unseen theirs that they can write (thereof) ?

> <span id="v48">48</span> But wait you for your Lord's decree, and be not like him of the fish, who cried out in despair.

> <span id="v49">49</span> Had it not been that favour from his Lord had reached him he surely had been cast into the wilderness while he was reprobate.

> <span id="v50">50</span> But his Lord chose him and placed him among the righteous.

> <span id="v51">51</span> And see! those who disbelieve would fain disconcert you with their eyes when they hear the Reminder, and they say: See! he is indeed mad;

> <span id="v52">52</span> When it is nothing else than a Reminder to creation.
