---
layout: surah
title: Surah 69
search: true
permalink: /quran/69/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> The Reality!

> <span id="v2">2</span> What is the Reality ?

> <span id="v3">3</span> Ah, what will convey to you what the reality is!

> <span id="v4">4</span> (The tribes of) Thamud and A'ad disbelieved in the judgment to come.

> <span id="v5">5</span> As for Thamud, they were destroyed by the lightning.

> <span id="v6">6</span> And as for A'ad, they were destroyed by a fierce roaring wind,

> <span id="v7">7</span> Which He imposed on them for seven long nights and eight long days so that you mightest have seen men lying overthrown, as they were hollow trunks of palm- trees.

> <span id="v8">8</span> Canst you (O Muhammad) see any remnant of them ?

> <span id="v9">9</span> And Pharaoh and those before him, and the communities that were destroyed, brought error,

> <span id="v10">10</span> And they disobeyed the messenger of their Lord, therefor did He grip them with a tightening grip.

> <span id="v11">11</span> See! when the waters rose, We carried you upon the ship

> <span id="v12">12</span> That We might make it a memorial for you, and that remembering ears (that heard the story) might remember.

> <span id="v13">13</span> And when the trumpet shall sound one blast

> <span id="v14">14</span> And the earth with the mountains shall be lifted up and crushed with one crash,

> <span id="v15">15</span> Then, on that day will the Event befall.

> <span id="v16">16</span> And the heaven will split asunder, for that day it will be frail.

> <span id="v17">17</span> And the angels will be on the sides thereof, and eight will uphold the Throne of your Lord that day, above them.

> <span id="v18">18</span> On that day you will be exposed; not a secret of you will be hidden.

> <span id="v19">19</span> Then, as for him who is given his record in his right hand, he will say: Take, read my book!

> <span id="v20">20</span> Surely I knew that I should have to meet my reckoning.

> <span id="v21">21</span> Then he will be in blissful state

> <span id="v22">22</span> In a high garden

> <span id="v23">23</span> Whereof the clusters are in easy reach.

> <span id="v24">24</span> (And it will be said to those therein): Eat and drink at ease for that which you sent on before you in past days.

> <span id="v25">25</span> But as for him who is given his record in his left hand, he will say: Oh, would that I had not been given my book

> <span id="v26">26</span> And knew not what my reckoning!

> <span id="v27">27</span> Oh, would that it had been death!

> <span id="v28">28</span> My wealth has not availed me,

> <span id="v29">29</span> My power has gone from me.

> <span id="v30">30</span> (It will be said): Take him and fetter him

> <span id="v31">31</span> And then expose him to hell-fire

> <span id="v32">32</span> And then insert him in a chain whereof the length is seventy cubits.

> <span id="v33">33</span> See! He used not to believe in Allah the Tremendous,

> <span id="v34">34</span> And urged not on the feeding of the wretched.

> <span id="v35">35</span> Therefor has he no lover here this day,

> <span id="v36">36</span> Nor any food save filth

> <span id="v37">37</span> Which none but sinners eat.

> <span id="v38">38</span> But nay! I swear by all that you see

> <span id="v39">39</span> And all that you see not

> <span id="v40">40</span> That it is indeed the speech of an illustrious messenger.

> <span id="v41">41</span> It is not poet's speech - little is it that you believe!

> <span id="v42">42</span> Nor diviner's speech - little is it that you remember!

> <span id="v43">43</span> It is a revelation from the Lord of the Worlds.

> <span id="v44">44</span> And if he had invented false sayings concerning Us,

> <span id="v45">45</span> We assuredly had taken him by the right hand

> <span id="v46">46</span> And then severed his life-artery,

> <span id="v47">47</span> And not one of you could have held Us off from him.

> <span id="v48">48</span> And see! it is a warrant to those who ward off (evil).

> <span id="v49">49</span> And see! We know that some among you will deny (it).

> <span id="v50">50</span> And see! it is indeed an anguish for the disbelievers.

> <span id="v51">51</span> And see! it is absolute truth.

> <span id="v52">52</span> So glorify the name of your Tremendous Lord.
