---
layout: surah
title: Surah 71
search: true
permalink: /quran/71/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> See! We sent Noah unto his people (saying): Warn your people ere the painful doom come unto them.

> <span id="v2">2</span> He said: O my people! See! I am a plain warner unto you

> <span id="v3">3</span> (Bidding you): Serve Allah and keep your duty unto Him and obey me,

> <span id="v4">4</span> That He may forgive you somewhat of your sins and respite you to an appointed term. See! the term of Allah, when it cometh, cannot be delayed, if you but knew.

> <span id="v5">5</span> He said: My Lord! See! I have called unto my people night and day

> <span id="v6">6</span> But all my calling doth but add to their repugnance;

> <span id="v7">7</span> And see! whenever I call unto them that You mayst pardon them they thrust their fingers in their ears and cover themselves with their garments and persist (in their refusal) and magnify themselves in pride.

> <span id="v8">8</span> And see! I have called unto them aloud,

> <span id="v9">9</span> And see! I have made public proclamation unto them, and I have appealed to them in private.

> <span id="v10">10</span> And I have said: Seek pardon of your Lord. See! He was ever Forgiving.

> <span id="v11">11</span> He will let loose the sky for you in plenteous rain,

> <span id="v12">12</span> And will help you with wealth and sons, and will assign unto you Gardens and will assign unto you rivers.

> <span id="v13">13</span> What ails you that you hope not toward Allah for dignity

> <span id="v14">14</span> When He created you by (divers) stages ?

> <span id="v15">15</span> See you not how Allah has created seven heavens in harmony,

> <span id="v16">16</span> And has made the moon a light therein, and made the sun a lamp ?

> <span id="v17">17</span> And Allah has caused you to grow as a growth from the earth,

> <span id="v18">18</span> And afterward He maketh you return thereto, and He will bring you forth again, a (new) forthbringing.

> <span id="v19">19</span> And Allah has made the earth a wide expanse for you

> <span id="v20">20</span> That you may thread the valley-ways thereof.

> <span id="v21">21</span> Noah said: My Lord! See! they have disobeyed me and followed one whose wealth and children increase him in nothing save ruin;

> <span id="v22">22</span> And they have plotted a mighty plot,

> <span id="v23">23</span> And they have said: Forsake not your gods. Forsake not Wadd, nor Suwa', nor Yaghuth and Ya'uq and Nasr.

> <span id="v24">24</span> And they have led many astray, and You increasest the wrong-doers in nothing save error.

> <span id="v25">25</span> Because of their sins they were drowned, then made to enter a Fire. And they found they had no helpers in place of Allah.

> <span id="v26">26</span> And Noah said: My Lord! Leave not one of the disbelievers in the land.

> <span id="v27">27</span> If You shouldst leave them, they will mislead your slaves and will beget none save lewd ingrates.

> <span id="v28">28</span> My Lord! Forgive me and my parents and him who entereth my house believing, and believing men and believing women, and increase not the wrong-doers in aught save ruin.
