---
layout: surah
title: Surah 73
search: true
permalink: /quran/73/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> O thou wrapped up in thy raiment!

> <span id="v2">2</span> Keep vigil the night long, save a little -

> <span id="v3">3</span> A half thereof, or abate a little thereof

> <span id="v4">4</span> Or add (a little) thereto - and chant the Qur'an in measure,

> <span id="v5">5</span> For we shall charge thee with a word of weight.

> <span id="v6">6</span> Lo! the vigil of the night is (a time) when impression is more keen and speech more certain.

> <span id="v7">7</span> Lo! thou hast by day a chain of business.

> <span id="v8">8</span> So remember the name of thy Lord and devote thyself with a complete devotion -

> <span id="v9">9</span> Lord of the East and the West; there is no God save Him; so choose thou Him alone for thy defender -

> <span id="v10">10</span> And bear with patience what they utter, and part from them with a fair leave- taking.

> <span id="v11">11</span> Leave Me to deal with the deniers, lords of ease and comfort (in this life); and do thou respite them awhile.

> <span id="v12">12</span> Lo! with Us are heavy fetters and a raging fire,

> <span id="v13">13</span> And food which choketh (the partaker), and a painful doom

> <span id="v14">14</span> On the day when the earth and the hills rock, and the hills become a heap of running sand.

> <span id="v15">15</span> Lo! We have sent unto you a messenger as witness against you, even as We sent unto Pharaoh a messenger.

> <span id="v16">16</span> But Pharaoh rebelled against the messenger, whereupon We seized him with no gentle grip.

> <span id="v17">17</span> Then how, if ye disbelieve, will ye protect yourselves upon the day which will turn children grey,

> <span id="v18">18</span> The very heaven being then rent asunder. His promise is to be fulfilled.

> <span id="v19">19</span> Lo! This is a Reminder. Let him who will, then, choose a way unto his Lord.

> <span id="v20">20</span> Lo! thy Lord knoweth how thou keepest vigil sometimes nearly two-thirds of the night, or (sometimes) half or a third thereof, as do a party of those with thee. Allah measureth the night and the day. He knoweth that ye count it not, and turneth unto you in mercy. Recite, then, of the Qur'an that which is easy for you. He knoweth that there are sick folk among you, while others travel in the land in search of Allah's bounty, and others (still) are fighting for the cause of Allah. So recite of it that which is easy (for you), and establish worship and pay the poor-due, and (so) lend unto Allah a goodly loan. Whatsoever good ye send before you for your souls, ye will find it with Allah, better and greater in the recompense. And seek forgiveness of Allah. Lo! Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
