---
layout: surah
title: Surah 74
search: true
permalink: /quran/74/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> O you enveloped in your cloak,

> <span id="v2">2</span> Arise and warn!

> <span id="v3">3</span> your Lord magnify,

> <span id="v4">4</span> your raiment purify,

> <span id="v5">5</span> Pollution shun!

> <span id="v6">6</span> And show not favour, seeking wordly gain!

> <span id="v7">7</span> For the sake of your Lord, be patient!

> <span id="v8">8</span> For when the trumpet shall sound,

> <span id="v9">9</span> Surely that day will be a day of anguish,

> <span id="v10">10</span> Not of ease, for disbelievers.

> <span id="v11">11</span> Leave Me (to deal) with him whom I created lonely,

> <span id="v12">12</span> And then bestowed upon him ample means,

> <span id="v13">13</span> And sons abiding in his presence

> <span id="v14">14</span> And made (life) smooth for him.

> <span id="v15">15</span> Yet he desireth that I should give more.

> <span id="v16">16</span> Nay! For lo! he hath been stubborn to Our revelations.

> <span id="v17">17</span> On him I shall impose a fearful doom.

> <span id="v18">18</span> For lo! he did consider; then he planned -

> <span id="v19">19</span> (Self-)destroyed is he, how he planned!

> <span id="v20">20</span> Again (self-)destroyed is he, how he planned! -

> <span id="v21">21</span> Then looked he,

> <span id="v22">22</span> Then frowned he and showed displeasure.

> <span id="v23">23</span> Then turned he away in pride

> <span id="v24">24</span> And said: This is naught else than magic from of old;

> <span id="v25">25</span> This is naught else than speech of mortal man.

> <span id="v26">26</span> Him shall I fling unto the burning.

> <span id="v27">27</span> - Ah, what will convey unto you what that burning is! -

> <span id="v28">28</span> It leaveth naught; it spareth naught

> <span id="v29">29</span> It shrivelleth the man.

> <span id="v30">30</span> Above it are nineteen.

> <span id="v31">31</span> We have appointed only angels to be wardens of the Fire, and their number have We made to be a stumbling-block for those who disbelieve; that those to whom the Scripture hath been given may have certainty, and that believers may increase in faith; and that those to whom the Scripture hath been given and believers may not doubt; and that those in whose hearts there is disease, and disbelievers, may say: What meaneth Allah by this similitude ? Thus Allah sendeth astray whom He will, and whom He will He guideth. None knoweth the hosts of your Lord save Him. This is naught else than a Reminder unto mortals.

> <span id="v32">32</span> Nay, by the Moon

> <span id="v33">33</span> And the night when it withdraweth

> <span id="v34">34</span> And the dawn when it shineth forth,

> <span id="v35">35</span> See! this is one of the greatest (portents)

> <span id="v36">36</span> As a warning unto men,

> <span id="v37">37</span> Unto him of you who will advance or hang back.

> <span id="v38">38</span> Every soul is a pledge for its own deeds;

> <span id="v39">39</span> Save those who will stand on the right hand.

> <span id="v40">40</span> In gardens they will ask one another

> <span id="v41">41</span> Concerning the guilty:

> <span id="v42">42</span> What hath brought you to this burning ?

> <span id="v43">43</span> They will answer: We were not of those who prayed

> <span id="v44">44</span> Nor did we feed the wretched.

> <span id="v45">45</span> We used to wade (in vain dispute) with (all) waders,

> <span id="v46">46</span> And we used to deny the Day of Judgment,

> <span id="v47">47</span> Till the Inevitable came unto us.

> <span id="v48">48</span> The mediation of no mediators will avail them then.

> <span id="v49">49</span> Why now turn they away from the Admonishment,

> <span id="v50">50</span> As they were frightened asses

> <span id="v51">51</span> Fleeing from a lion ?

> <span id="v52">52</span> Nay, but everyone of them desireth that he should be given open pages (from Allah).

> <span id="v53">53</span> Nay, verily. They fear not the Hereafter.

> <span id="v54">54</span> Nay, verily. See! this is an Admonishment.

> <span id="v55">55</span> So whosoever will may heed.

> <span id="v56">56</span> And they will not heed unless Allah willeth (it). He is the fount of fear. He is the fount of Mercy.
