---
layout: surah
title: Surah 75
search: true
permalink: /quran/75/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> No, I swear by the Day of Resurrection;

> <span id="v2">2</span> No, I swear by the accusing soul (that this Scripture is true).

> <span id="v3">3</span> Thinketh man that We shall not assemble his bones ?

> <span id="v4">4</span> Yea, verily. We are Able to restore his very fingers!

> <span id="v5">5</span> But man would fain deny what is before him.

> <span id="v6">6</span> He asketh: When will be this Day of Resurrection ?

> <span id="v7">7</span> But when sight is confounded

> <span id="v8">8</span> And the moon is eclipsed

> <span id="v9">9</span> And sun and moon are united,

> <span id="v10">10</span> On that day man will cry: Whither to flee!

> <span id="v11">11</span> Alas! No refuge!

> <span id="v12">12</span> Unto your Lord is the recourse that day.

> <span id="v13">13</span> On that day man is told the tale of that which he has sent before and left behind.

> <span id="v14">14</span> Oh, but man is a telling witness against himself,

> <span id="v15">15</span> Although he tender his excuses.

> <span id="v16">16</span> Stir not your tongue herewith to hasten it.

> <span id="v17">17</span> See! upon Us (resteth) the putting together thereof and the reading thereof.

> <span id="v18">18</span> And when We read it, follow you the reading;

> <span id="v19">19</span> Then see! upon Us (resteth) the explanation thereof.

> <span id="v20">20</span> No, but you do love the fleeting Now

> <span id="v21">21</span> And neglect the Hereafter.

> <span id="v22">22</span> That day will faces be resplendent,

> <span id="v23">23</span> Looking toward their Lord;

> <span id="v24">24</span> And that day will other faces be despondent,

> <span id="v25">25</span> You will know that some great disaster is about to fall on them.

> <span id="v26">26</span> No, but when the life cometh up to the throat

> <span id="v27">27</span> And men say: Where is the wizard (who can save him now) ?

> <span id="v28">28</span> And he knows that it is the parting;

> <span id="v29">29</span> And agony is heaped on agony;

> <span id="v30">30</span> Unto your Lord that day will be the driving.

> <span id="v31">31</span> For he neither trusted, nor prayed.

> <span id="v32">32</span> But he denied and flouted.

> <span id="v33">33</span> Then went he to his folk with glee.

> <span id="v34">34</span> Nearer to you and nearer,

> <span id="v35">35</span> Again nearer to you and nearer (is the doom).

> <span id="v36">36</span> Thinketh man that he is to be left aimless ?

> <span id="v37">37</span> Was he not a drop of fluid which gushed forth ?

> <span id="v38">38</span> Then he became a clot; then (Allah) shaped and fashioned

> <span id="v39">39</span> And made of him a pair, the male and female.

> <span id="v40">40</span> Is not He (Who does so) Able to bring the dead to life ?
