---
layout: surah
title: Surah 76
search: true
permalink: /quran/76/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> Hath there come upon man (ever) any period of time in which he was a thing unremembered ?

> <span id="v2">2</span> See! We create man from a drop of thickened fluid to test him; so We make him hearing, knowing.

> <span id="v3">3</span> See! We have shown him the way, whether he be grateful or disbelieving.

> <span id="v4">4</span> See! We have prepared for disbelievers manacles and carcans and a raging fire.

> <span id="v5">5</span> See! the righteous shall drink of a cup whereof the mixture is of Kafur,

> <span id="v6">6</span> A spring wherefrom the slaves of Allah drink, making it gush forth abundantly,

> <span id="v7">7</span> (Because) they perform the vow and fear a day whereof the evil is wide- spreading,

> <span id="v8">8</span> And feed with food the needy wretch, the orphan and the prisoner, for love of Him,

> <span id="v9">9</span> (Saying): We feed you, for the sake of Allah only. We wish for no reward nor thanks from you;

> <span id="v10">10</span> See! we fear from our Lord a day of frowning and of fate.

> <span id="v11">11</span> Therefor Allah hath warded off from them the evil of that day, and hath made them find brightness and joy;

> <span id="v12">12</span> And hath awarded them for all that they endured, a Garden and silk attire;

> <span id="v13">13</span> Reclining therein upon couches, they will find there neither (heat of) a sun nor bitter cold.

> <span id="v14">14</span> The shade thereof is close upon them and the clustered fruits thereof bow down.

> <span id="v15">15</span> Goblets of silver are brought round for them, and beakers (as) of glass

> <span id="v16">16</span> (Bright as) glass but (made) of silver, which they (themselves) have measured to the measure (of their deeds).

> <span id="v17">17</span> There are they watered with a cup whereof the mixture is of Zanjabil,

> <span id="v18">18</span> (The water of) a spring therein, named Salsabil.

> <span id="v19">19</span> There wait on them immortal youths, whom, when you seest, you wouldst take for scattered pearls.

> <span id="v20">20</span> When you seest, you will see there bliss and high estate.

> <span id="v21">21</span> Their raiment will be fine green silk and gold embroidery. Bracelets of silver will they wear. Their Lord will slake their thirst with a pure drink.

> <span id="v22">22</span> (And it will be said unto them): See! this is a reward for you. Your endeavour (upon earth) hath found acceptance.

> <span id="v23">23</span> See! We, even We, have revealed unto you the Qur'an, a revelation;

> <span id="v24">24</span> So submit patiently to your Lord's command, and obey not of them any guilty one or disbeliever.

> <span id="v25">25</span> Remember the name of your Lord at morn and evening.

> <span id="v26">26</span> And worship Him (a portion) of the night. And glorify Him through the livelong night.

> <span id="v27">27</span> See! these love fleeting life, and put behind them (the remembrance of) a grievous day.

> <span id="v28">28</span> We, even We, created them, and strengthened their frame. And when We will, We can replace them, bringing others like them in their stead.

> <span id="v29">29</span> See! this is an Admonishment, that whosoever will may choose a way unto his Lord.

> <span id="v30">30</span> Yet you will not, unless Allah willeth. See! Allah is Knower, Wise.

> <span id="v31">31</span> He maketh whom He will to enter His mercy, and for evil-doers hath prepared a painful doom.
