---
layout: surah
title: Surah 77
search: true
permalink: /quran/77/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> By the emissary winds, (sent) one after another

> <span id="v2">2</span> By the raging hurricanes,

> <span id="v3">3</span> By those which cause earth's vegetation to revive;

> <span id="v4">4</span> By those who winnow with a winnowing,

> <span id="v5">5</span> By those who bring down the Reminder,

> <span id="v6">6</span> To excuse or to warn,

> <span id="v7">7</span> Surely that which you are promised will befall.

> <span id="v8">8</span> So when the stars are put out,

> <span id="v9">9</span> And when the sky is riven asunder,

> <span id="v10">10</span> And when the mountains are blown away,

> <span id="v11">11</span> And when the messengers are brought unto their time appointed -

> <span id="v12">12</span> For what day is the time appointed ?

> <span id="v13">13</span> For the Day of Decision.

> <span id="v14">14</span> And what will convey unto you what the Day of Decision is! -

> <span id="v15">15</span> Woe unto the repudiators on that day!

> <span id="v16">16</span> Destroyed We not the former folk,

> <span id="v17">17</span> Then caused the latter folk to follow after ?

> <span id="v18">18</span> Thus deal We ever with the guilty.

> <span id="v19">19</span> Woe unto the repudiators on that day!

> <span id="v20">20</span> Did We not create you from a base fluid

> <span id="v21">21</span> Which We laid up in a safe abode

> <span id="v22">22</span> For a known term ?

> <span id="v23">23</span> Thus We arranged. How excellent is Our arranging!

> <span id="v24">24</span> Woe unto the repudiators on that day!

> <span id="v25">25</span> Have We not made the earth a receptacle

> <span id="v26">26</span> Both for the living and the dead,

> <span id="v27">27</span> And placed therein high mountains and given you to drink sweet water therein ?

> <span id="v28">28</span> Woe unto the repudiators on that day!

> <span id="v29">29</span> (It will be said unto them:) Depart unto that (doom) which you used to deny;

> <span id="v30">30</span> Depart unto the shadow falling threefold,

> <span id="v31">31</span> (Which yet is) no relief nor shelter from the flame.

> <span id="v32">32</span> Lo! it throweth up sparks like the castles,

> <span id="v33">33</span> (Or) as it might be camels of bright yellow hue.

> <span id="v34">34</span> Woe unto the repudiators on that day!

> <span id="v35">35</span> This is a day wherein they speak not,

> <span id="v36">36</span> Nor are they suffered to put forth excuses.

> <span id="v37">37</span> Woe unto the repudiators on that day!

> <span id="v38">38</span> This is the Day of Decision, We have brought you and the men of old together.

> <span id="v39">39</span> If now you have any wit, outwit Me.

> <span id="v40">40</span> Woe unto the repudiators on that day!

> <span id="v41">41</span> Lo! those who kept their duty are amid shade and fountains,

> <span id="v42">42</span> And fruits such as they desire.

> <span id="v43">43</span> (Unto them it is said:) Eat, drink and welcome, O you blessed, in return for what you did.

> <span id="v44">44</span> Thus do We reward the good.

> <span id="v45">45</span> Woe unto the repudiators on that day!

> <span id="v46">46</span> Eat and take your ease (on earth) a little. Lo! you are guilty.

> <span id="v47">47</span> Woe unto the repudiators on that day!

> <span id="v48">48</span> When it is said unto them: Bow down, they bow not down!

> <span id="v49">49</span> Woe unto the repudiators on that day!

> <span id="v50">50</span> In what statement, after this, will they believe ?
