---
layout: surah
title: Surah 78
search: true
permalink: /quran/78/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> Whereof do they question one another ?

> <span id="v2">2</span> (It is) of the awful tidings,

> <span id="v3">3</span> Concerning which they are in disagreement.

> <span id="v4">4</span> Nay, but they will come to know!

> <span id="v5">5</span> Nay, again, but they will come to know!

> <span id="v6">6</span> Have We not made the earth an expanse,

> <span id="v7">7</span> And the high hills bulwarks ?

> <span id="v8">8</span> And We have created you in pairs,

> <span id="v9">9</span> And have appointed your sleep for repose,

> <span id="v10">10</span> And have appointed the night as a cloak,

> <span id="v11">11</span> And have appointed the day for livelihood.

> <span id="v12">12</span> And We have built above you seven strong (heavens),

> <span id="v13">13</span> And have appointed a dazzling lamp,

> <span id="v14">14</span> And have sent down from the rainy clouds abundant water,

> <span id="v15">15</span> Thereby to produce grain and plant,

> <span id="v16">16</span> And gardens of thick foliage.

> <span id="v17">17</span> See! the Day of Decision is a fixed time,

> <span id="v18">18</span> A day when the trumpet is blown and you come in multitudes,

> <span id="v19">19</span> And the heaven is opened and becometh as gates,

> <span id="v20">20</span> And the hills are set in motion and become as a mirage.

> <span id="v21">21</span> See! hell lurketh in ambush,

> <span id="v22">22</span> A home for the rebellious.

> <span id="v23">23</span> They will abide therein for ages.

> <span id="v24">24</span> Therein taste they neither coolness nor (any) drink

> <span id="v25">25</span> Save boiling water and a paralysing cold:

> <span id="v26">26</span> Reward proportioned (to their evil deeds).

> <span id="v27">27</span> For lo! they looked not for a reckoning;

> <span id="v28">28</span> They called Our revelations false with strong denial.

> <span id="v29">29</span> Everything have We recorded in a Book.

> <span id="v30">30</span> So taste (of that which you have earned). No increase do We give you save of torment.

> <span id="v31">31</span> See! for the duteous is achievement -

> <span id="v32">32</span> Gardens enclosed and vineyards,

> <span id="v33">33</span> And maidens for companions,

> <span id="v34">34</span> And a full cup.

> <span id="v35">35</span> There hear they never vain discourse, nor lying -

> <span id="v36">36</span> Requital from your Lord - a gift in payment -

> <span id="v37">37</span> Lord of the heavens and the earth, and (all) that is between them, the Beneficent; with Whom none can converse.

> <span id="v38">38</span> On the day when the angels and the Spirit stand arrayed, they speak not, saving him whom the Beneficent alloweth and who speaketh right.

> <span id="v39">39</span> That is the True Day. So whoso will should seek recourse unto his Lord.

> <span id="v40">40</span> See! We warn you of a doom at hand, a day whereon a man will look on that which his own hands have sent before, and the disbeliever will cry: "Would that I were dust!"
