---
layout: surah
title: Surah 79
search: true
permalink: /quran/79/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> By those who drag forth to destruction,

> <span id="v2">2</span> By the meteors rushing,

> <span id="v3">3</span> By the lone stars floating,

> <span id="v4">4</span> By the angels hastening,

> <span id="v5">5</span> And those who govern the event,

> <span id="v6">6</span> On the day when the first trump resoundeth.

> <span id="v7">7</span> And the second followeth it,

> <span id="v8">8</span> On that day hearts beat painfully

> <span id="v9">9</span> While eyes are downcast

> <span id="v10">10</span> (Now) they are saying: Shall we really be restored to our first state

> <span id="v11">11</span> Even after we are crumbled bones ?

> <span id="v12">12</span> They say: Then that would be a vain proceeding.

> <span id="v13">13</span> Surely it will need but one shout,

> <span id="v14">14</span> And see! they will be awakened.

> <span id="v15">15</span> Hath there come to you the history of Moses ?

> <span id="v16">16</span> How his Lord called him in the holy vale of Tuwa,

> <span id="v17">17</span> (Saying:) Go you to Pharaoh - See! he has rebelled -

> <span id="v18">18</span> And say (unto him): Have you (will) to grow (in grace) ?

> <span id="v19">19</span> Then I will guide you to your Lord and you shalt fear (Him).

> <span id="v20">20</span> And he showed him the tremendous token.

> <span id="v21">21</span> But he denied and disobeyed,

> <span id="v22">22</span> Then turned he away in haste,

> <span id="v23">23</span> Then gathered he and summoned

> <span id="v24">24</span> And proclaimed: "I (Pharaoh) am your Lord the Highest."

> <span id="v25">25</span> So Allah seized him (and made him) an example for the after (life) and for the former.

> <span id="v26">26</span> See! herein is indeed a lesson for him who feareth.

> <span id="v27">27</span> Are you the harder to create, or is the heaven that He built ?

> <span id="v28">28</span> He raised the height thereof and ordered it;

> <span id="v29">29</span> And He made dark the night thereof, and He brought forth the morn thereof.

> <span id="v30">30</span> And after that He spread the earth,

> <span id="v31">31</span> And produced therefrom the water thereof and the pasture thereof,

> <span id="v32">32</span> And He made fast the hills,

> <span id="v33">33</span> A provision for you and for your cattle.

> <span id="v34">34</span> But when the great disaster cometh,

> <span id="v35">35</span> The day when man will call to mind his (whole) endeavour,

> <span id="v36">36</span> And hell will stand forth visible to him who sees,

> <span id="v37">37</span> Then, as for him who rebelled

> <span id="v38">38</span> And chose the life of the world,

> <span id="v39">39</span> See! hell will be his home.

> <span id="v40">40</span> But as for him who feared to stand before his Lord and restrained his soul from lust,

> <span id="v41">41</span> See! the Garden will be his home.

> <span id="v42">42</span> They ask you of the Hour: when will it come to port ?

> <span id="v43">43</span> Why (ask they) ? What hast you to tell thereof ?

> <span id="v44">44</span> Unto your Lord belongeth (knowledge of) the term thereof.

> <span id="v45">45</span> You are but a warner to him who feareth it.

> <span id="v46">46</span> On the day when they behold it, it will be as if they had but tarried for an evening or the morn thereof.
