---
layout: surah
title: Surah 83
search: true
permalink: /quran/83/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> Woe to the defrauders:

> <span id="v2">2</span> Those who when they take the measure from mankind demand it full,

> <span id="v3">3</span> But if they measure to them or weight for them, they cause them loss.

> <span id="v4">4</span> Do such (men) not consider that they will be raised again

> <span id="v5">5</span> Unto an Awful Day,

> <span id="v6">6</span> The day when (all) mankind stand before the Lord of the Worlds ?

> <span id="v7">7</span> No, but the record of the vile is in Sijjin -

> <span id="v8">8</span> Ah! what will convey to you what Sijjin is! -

> <span id="v9">9</span> A written record.

> <span id="v10">10</span> Woe to the repudiators on that day!

> <span id="v11">11</span> Those who deny the Day of Judgment

> <span id="v12">12</span> Which none denies save each criminal transgressor,

> <span id="v13">13</span> Who, when you readest to him Our revelations, said: (Mere) fables of the men of old.

> <span id="v14">14</span> No, but that which they have earned is rust upon their hearts.

> <span id="v15">15</span> No, but surely on that day they will be covered from (the mercy of) their Lord.

> <span id="v16">16</span> Then see! they verily will burn in hell,

> <span id="v17">17</span> And it will be said (unto them): This is that which you used to deny.

> <span id="v18">18</span> No, but the record of the righteous is in 'Illiyin -

> <span id="v19">19</span> Ah, what will convey to you what 'Illiyin is! -

> <span id="v20">20</span> A written record,

> <span id="v21">21</span> Attested by those who are brought near (unto their Lord).

> <span id="v22">22</span> See! the righteous verily are in delight,

> <span id="v23">23</span> On couches, gazing,

> <span id="v24">24</span> You will know in their faces the radiance of delight.

> <span id="v25">25</span> They are given to drink of a pure wine, sealed,

> <span id="v26">26</span> Whose seal is musk - for this let (all) those strive who strive for bliss -

> <span id="v27">27</span> And mixed with water of Tasnim,

> <span id="v28">28</span> A spring whence those brought near (to Allah) drink.

> <span id="v29">29</span> See! the guilty used to laugh at those who believed,

> <span id="v30">30</span> And wink one to another when they passed them;

> <span id="v31">31</span> And when they returned to their own folk, they returned jesting;

> <span id="v32">32</span> And when they saw them they said: See! these have gone astray.

> <span id="v33">33</span> Yet they were not sent as guardians over them.

> <span id="v34">34</span> This day it is those who believe who have the laugh of disbelievers,

> <span id="v35">35</span> On high couches, gazing.

> <span id="v36">36</span> Are not the disbelievers paid for what they used to do ?
