---
layout: surah
title: Surah 89
search: true
permalink: /quran/89/
---

> <span id="v1">1</span> By the Dawn

> <span id="v2">2</span> And ten nights,

> <span id="v3">3</span> And the Even and the Odd,

> <span id="v4">4</span> And the night when it departeth,

> <span id="v5">5</span> There surely is an oath for thinking man.

> <span id="v6">6</span> Dost you not consider how your Lord dealt with (the tribe of) A'ad,

> <span id="v7">7</span> With many-columned Iram,

> <span id="v8">8</span> The like of which was not created in the lands;

> <span id="v9">9</span> And with (the tribe of) Thamud, who clove the rocks in the valley;

> <span id="v10">10</span> And with Pharaoh, firm of might,

> <span id="v11">11</span> Who (all) were rebellious (to Allah) in these lands,

> <span id="v12">12</span> And multiplied iniquity therein ?

> <span id="v13">13</span> Therefore your Lord poured on them the disaster of His punishment.

> <span id="v14">14</span> See! your Lord is ever watchful.

> <span id="v15">15</span> As for man, whenever his Lord trieth him by honouring him, and is gracious unto him, he said: My Lord honoureth me.

> <span id="v16">16</span> But whenever He trieth him by straitening his means of life, he said: My Lord despiseth me.

> <span id="v17">17</span> No, but you (for your part) honour not the orphan

> <span id="v18">18</span> And urge not on the feeding of the poor.

> <span id="v19">19</span> And you devour heritages with devouring greed.

> <span id="v20">20</span> And love wealth with abounding love.

> <span id="v21">21</span> No, but when the earth is ground to atoms, grinding, grinding,

> <span id="v22">22</span> And your Lord shall come with angels, rank on rank,

> <span id="v23">23</span> And hell is brought near that day; on that day man will remember, but how will the remembrance (then avail him) ?

> <span id="v24">24</span> He will say: Ah, would that I had sent before me (some provision) for my life!

> <span id="v25">25</span> None punisheth as He will punish on that day!

> <span id="v26">26</span> None bindeth as He then will bind.

> <span id="v27">27</span> But ah! you soul at peace!

> <span id="v28">28</span> Return unto your Lord, content in His good pleasure!

> <span id="v29">29</span> Enter you among My bondmen!

> <span id="v30">30</span> Enter you My Garden!
