---
layout: surah
title: Surah 105 - Al-Fil (The Elephant)
search: true
permalink: /quran/105/
---

The name comes from the famous historical episode referenced in the surah: the failed expedition of Abraha, a Christian ruler from Yemen, who is said to have marched on Mecca with war elephants to destroy the Kaʿba. The surah interprets the event as a direct act of divine intervention.

It's worth to note that no non-Islamic source records an attack on Mecca involving elephants being destroyed by birds throwing stones.


> <span id="v1">1</span> Have you not seen how your Lord dealt with the owners of the Elephant ?

The surah opens with a rhetorical appeal to collective memory. The event is treated as well known and theologically significant. From a Christian perspective, this resembles biblical appeals to Israel’s historical acts of deliverance (e.g., Exodus 14). However, the verse assumes the audience’s acceptance of the event as a sign of divine favor toward Mecca, something Christianity would approach cautiously without independent corroboration.

Unless you know the context, this verse is nonsensical.

((105:1, No context, Clear Quran dilemma, Quran - unclear))


> <span id="v2">2</span> Did He not bring their stratagem to nothing,

The narrative frames the military expedition as a human scheme overturned by God. Christianity affirms that God frustrates arrogant plans (Psalm 33:10). Yet from a Christian critical lens, the moral clarity of the event is left underexplained: the surah does not explain why the attackers were judged beyond their opposition to Mecca, nor does it explicitly ground God’s action in moral revelation rather than territorial protection.

> <span id="v3">3</span> And send against them swarms of flying creatures,
> <span id="v4">4</span> Which pelted them with stones of baked clay,


 Christianity does not deny miracles, but it tends to interpret divine judgment within a broader redemptive narrative. Here, destruction functions primarily as vindication and deterrence, not as a call to repentance or transformation.
 
 ((105:3, Miracles, Birds))

> <span id="v5">5</span> And made them like green crops devoured (by cattle) ?
